understanding business development. business development is a mysterious title for a little discussed function or department in most larger companies. its also a great way for an entrepreneur or small business to have fun create value and make money. good business development allows businesses to profit by doing something that is tangential to their core mission. sometimes the profit is so good it becomes part of their core mission other times it supports the brand and sometimes it just makes money. and often its a little guy who can be flexible enough to make things happen. examples starbucks licenses their name to a maker of ice cream and generates millions in royalties. a rack jobber like handleman does a deal with a mass marketer like k mart. k mart gives them room in the store to sell records and gets a cut handleman does all the work. aol buys aim instant messaging software and integrates it into their service. years ago i licensed the rights to isaac asimovs robot novels from a business development person at his publisher and turned the books into a vcr murder mystery game which i licensed to a business development person at kodak a company that was experimenting with becoming a publisher. isaac made more from this project than he did from many of his books. best buy offers extended warranties on appliances you buy. they dont provide the warranty of course a business development person did a deal with an insurance service company to do it and they share the profit. the princeton review built a huge test prep business but only by licensing their brand to a series of books which did the lions share of their marketing for them. you dont see business development from the outside particularly all the potential deals that fail along the way. many companies though spend millions of dollars a year looking for deals and then discovering that they pay off many times over. others particularly smaller competitors are so focused on their core business that it never occurs to them to consider partnerships licensing publishing acquisition and other arrangements that might change everything. harley davidson probably makes more money on business development than they make on motorcycles. the thing that makes business development fascinating is that the best deals have never been done before. theres no template no cookie cutter grind it out approach to making it work. this is why most organizations are so astonishingly bad at it. they dont have the confidence to make decisions or believe they have the ability to make mistakes. think about the apple nike partnership on making a device that integrates your ipod with your sneakers. this took years and cost millions of dollars to develop. most companies would just flee giving up long before a deal was done and a product was shipped. here are some tactical tips on how to do business development better process first ideas second. if youre going to be bringing new partners and new ideas into your organization you need a process to do it. professionals dont know it when i see it. instead professionals think about the abilities of their company and strategies necessary to bring ideas in refine them and launch them. great business development people dont waste time in endless meetings with random vendors or hassle about tiny details up front. instead they have an agenda and a project managers understanding of what it means to get things done. they dont keep the process a secret either. they share it with anyone who wants to know. someone needs to say heres how we do things around here and then they have to tell the truth. who decides because every great business development project is different its incredibly easy to get stuck on who can say yes of course everyone can say no. professional business development people intentionally limit the number of people who are allowed to weigh in and are clear to themselves and their potential partners about exactly who can and must give the go ahead. dont bother starting a business development deal unless you know in advance who must say yes. courtship negotiation and marriage. every deal has three parts and keeping them straight is essential. during the courtship phase you win when you are respectful diligent enthusiastic engaging outgoing and relentless in your search to make a connection. do your homework research peoples backgrounds learn about their kids visit themdont make them visit you. look people in the eye ask hard but engaging questions you know the drill. basically treat people as youd like to be treated because the people you most want to work with have a choice and they may just not pick you. hint if you skip the courtship part the other two stages probably wont come up. buyer and seller. if youve ever pitched a product or service to a business you know how souldeadening it can be. the buyer works hard to make it clear that shes doing you a favor and you need every dog and every pony available at all times and you better be the cheapest. but business development doesnt have this dichotomy. both sides are buying both sides are selling right so talented business development people never act like jaded buyers arms folded demanding this and that. instead from the start they seek out partners. enthusiasm is underrated. business development people are exploring the unknown. that means that theres more than cash on the table theres bravery and initiative and excitement. the best business development people ive ever worked with are able to capture the energy in the room and amplify it. theyll build on the ideas being presented not make them smaller. close the open door. i regularly hear from readers who are frustrated because a big company wasnt willing to hear a great idea they mailed in. heres the thing there isnt a shortage of ideas. theres a shortage of execution. that means that successful business development teams look for proven partners and organizations with momentum. a key part of that is the decision to say no early and quickly and respectfully to people who dont meet that threshold. call the lawyers later. a business development deal that never happens is one thats sure to cause no problems. while the legal clarity you need is important theres plenty of data that shows that ten page nda agreements and onerous contracts early in the process dont protect you they merely waste your time and energy. cast a wider net. the allen and co. annual gathering is a dumb place to choose a merger partner. limiting the number of potential partners to people youve met at a trade show is also silly. business development when it works creates huge value for both sides so better to be proactive in searching out and soliciting the organizations that can make a difference. heres a simple way to widen your net start a blog and go to conferences to speak. describe your successful business development projects to date and let the world know youre looking for more of them. how many amazing partnerships could the apple store launch how many great books could starbucks highlight not only dont they do this they hide. dont hide. talk to the receptionist. this is huge and so important. when a great partner shows up at your doorstep do you know heres a test call your organization pretending to be from some respected organization describe a business development opportunity and ask who can help. if youre not immediately transferred to your office youve failed right make it easy for the right people to know that youre the right guy. hire better. how do you decide who to put in this job id argue that glibness and charisma arent as important as strategic thinking project management and humility. structure deals with the expectation of success. the only real reason to do business development deals is because when they work theyre so powerful. andrew tobias put his name on a piece of software that ended up earning him millions of dollars. its easy to get hung up on all the bad things that could happen but keep your focus on how the world looks when you get it right. end well. most of the time even good business development deals fall down before the end of the negotiation process. if a deal doesnt come together say so. acknowledge what went wrong thank the other party and end well. if it does come together track the integration and stay involved enough to learn from what works and what doesnt. im still waiting to hear from people who said theyd get back to me tomorrow fifteen years ago but im losing hope ending well not only teaches you how to do better next time but it keeps doors open for when you need to come back to someone who you should have done a deal with in the first place. septemberwhat are different types of marketing research marketers use marketing research to find answers to various questions related to market dynamics business environment and consumer behaviour. for this a formal research design plan is created by marketers. but some marketers conduct research without formal plan as well. for example a hotel owner who asks returning customers what was their experience during their stay at his hotel is conducting a research without a formal research design. the major component of research design is to decide which type of marketing research will be best suited for desired objective. marketing research can be classified into three categories depending upon the objectives of the research. exploratory research exploratory research is used in cases where the marketer has little or no understanding about the research problem due to lack of proper information. for example a marketer has heard about social media marketing techniques which are employed by their competitors with great success but he is not familiar with using these for his products services. he needs to use exploratory market research to gain discover insights about this situation. thus when the goal of the marketer is to precisely formulate problems clear concepts gain insights eliminate impractical ideas and form hypotheses then exploratory research is used. exploratory research follows and unstructured format and makes use of qualitative techniques secondary research and experts opinions. for example the marketer from the previous case can use books syndicated research case studies focus groups expert interviews and survey techniques to conduct exploratory research. the results of exploratory research cant be used for marketing decisions in most cases at least not directly. then the question arises why to do exploratory research in the first place well the answer is the core goal of exploratory research is to equip marketers with enough information to facilitate marketers plan a format research design correctly. for example by conducting exploratory research the marketer can find out that the competition is using popular social media channels like facebook twitter linkedin and youtube to reach target consumers effectively and successfully engaging customers with the brand directly. now with this information he can plan a formal research design to test his hypothesis. descriptive research descriptive research is used to find accurate answers of questions like who are users of my products services how they are using my products services what proportion of population uses my products services what is the future demand for my products services who are all my competitors thus descriptive research is used to explain monitor and test hypotheses created by marketers to help them find accurate answers. due to this reason descriptive research is rigid well structure and well planned and uses quantitative techniques like questionnaires structured interviews data analysis etc. for example the marketer from previous case and use descriptive research to find out if he also starts using social media marketing techniques for promoting his products and services then how many of his current customers will be attracted to them how many new customers can be engaged using social media how much time effort and money will be involved in this activity what will be the predicted return on investment roi will he be able to attract competitors customers causal research causal research is used by marketers to find cause and effect relationship of variables. it is also sometimes referred as if. . then method. in this type of research the marketer tries to understand the effects of manipulating independent variable on other dependent variable. causal research uses field and laboratory experimentation techniques to achieve its goals. this research is used by marketers mainly to predict and test hypotheses. lets take some test cases where causal research can be used what will happen to sale of my product if i change the packaging of the product what will happen to sale of my product if i change the design of the product what will happen to sale of my product if i change the advertisinglowcost marketing research techniques for small businesses big companies spend millions of dollars on tv ads national surveys and focus groups in order to connect with customers and better understand their needs. for successful businesses its a necessary investment. doing marketing research is one of the first actions you need to take before launching a startup. skipping it is like walking through a minefield blindfolded. unfortunately not everyone can afford expensive marketing research. however small business owners have a great advantage over the giants theyre closer to their customers. that translates into more accessible ways of conducting research by taking advantage of a few easy and affordable options. here are five lowcost and extremely efficient marketing research techniques that will allow you to validate your product idea and attract more customers. . question yourself first if you havent done this already youve neglected the most important part of the process. before even thinking of getting your idea out there you have to create an estimate of how your business will perform early on and set some realistic business goals. here are few questions you have to address yourself first how much money do i plan to earn each year month off of my product service what are the costs of the initial startup and what are the costs of the maintenance how much do i need to sell in order to reach my financial goal these three preliminary questions will help you understand how much effort you need to put into your business whether or not youre on track and how well defined your idea is before you go to market. . directly interview your potential customers direct interaction is king and what better way of performing it other than directly contacting potential prospects and customers find out who they are how you can reach them and then just do it. here are some good questions that you should prepare before starting that conversation what is the most valuable aspect of your product what alternatives do they have and why would they choose it instead of your product why would they choose your product instead of others what events or personal issues would make them instantly buy your product how much are they willing to pay where is the place theyd go first when looking for a product such as yours you can add new questions or even remove some of the above. the main target here is to discover and then analyze the people who will eventually buy from you. the more information you can get from them the better off your new business will be. . set up online surveys an even easier way of finding out valuable answers from your potential customers is to set up surveys. there are thousands of companies online free or paid that will allow you to finetune your product idea with the help of the public. if you dont have a customer database yet you can use social media when trying to reach a specific audience. facebook for example has an amazing targeting feature that will allow you to place your surveys into the hands of the right people. heres a quick tip. if you are serious about conducting a marketing research campaign you need to invest few bucks into proofreading your surveys and content. assignment masters is the best solution because its an extremely affordable and qualitative service. . leverage marketing professors and students this strategy is extremely useful and most of the times costfree. you basically seek marketing professors from universities in your local town and ask them for help. they will be extremely happy to let their students get practical experience while working on your businesss research. young and motivated students are often willing to work harder for you than a paid service consultant would. furthermore the students are going to be advised by the professor throughout the process so the marketing research will overseen by an expert and as efficient as it can be. winwin. . join online communities there are tons of blogs live chats and forums that everyone with an internet connection can access. start by compiling a list of all the online destinations where your potential customers spend their time. after you have your list begin creating a profile for yourself or your company on each of them and start engaging. this can be a very time consuming process but a price needs to be paid either your money or your time. engaging with potential customers online is a free method and can be used by almost any type of business. small companies should never underestimate the power of the free tools that are available to them. remember small businesses can become great companies in time and there are hundreds of examples that prove this. go out there and make it happen may by ben goldstein tags marketing online research startups surveysare product managers the new software engineers software engineers have long been the vaunted kings of silicon valley but a new power nexus is rapidly emerging product management. now the highest paid role in technology in the united states united kingdom and australia the meteoric rise of product management mirrors that of software developers in the s not just in monetary terms but also in terms of cultural clout and unicornlike scarcity. are product managers the new software developers all signs point to a resounding yes as it relates to the scarcity of good pms with the experience or skills needed to scale a product. here are some key corollaries were seeing between the market for product managers now and the market for software engineers historically higher demand is driving higher salaries with no signs of stopping. per hireds global state of tech salaries product managers bring in the highest average salary offers of any tech role. in product managers saw a. percent increase in us salaries to an average of k and. percent in the uk to an average of k k. . while uk salaries are lower across the board product managers are still coming out on top at k k on average in. good pms merge technical skills with marketing acumen. we analyzed more than interview requests and job offers from the past year to identify the most indemand pm skills and the top skills see rightside image reflect the crossfunctional fullstack nature of the pm function. good product managers are good marketers explains twitter product lead hernal shah. they know their target audience and the best ways to reach them. they design their product for distribution. in a prescient comment on ken nortons nowinfamous how to hire a product manager pmturnedgreylockvc josh elman then a pm lead at linkedin wrote product management one of the most difficult jobs to measure not in lines of code press releases ad sales etc. the hardest and most exciting part of the job is being responsible for answering and understanding the why why do users need this why is this going to support the business why cant we get this done faster why should it work this way mature markets have raised the stakes. product adoption is increasingly key to company success its not just about shipping quality code anymore. with software eating the world all industries are anchored in technology and must think like one to secure and keep market leadership. plus according to deloitte touche customercentric companies are more profitable than their peers. its not just about shipping software explains matt lemay in the past and future of product management. as venture capital becomes more interested in companies that are revenuefocused and truly understand their market there is an appreciable shift away from just ship software and towards ship the right software. its hard to hire good product managers. depending on who you ask finding and hiring good product managers is now a more challenging endeavor than finding and hiring good software engineers. why is this hiring developers is by no means easy but mastery of technical systems is ultimately easier to display and quantify than mastery of human systems if the latter is even possible explains matt lemay in the past and future of product management. as more companies acknowledge the importance of product management there is also a growing sense of anxiety and confusion around what makes a good product manager and how to find them. theres no clear rubric for evaluating pm talent. due to a wildly varying understanding as to what product managers actually do theres no clear industry framework for evaluating how good any pm is at their job. right now being good at product isnt about skills writes lola vp of product ellen chisa. its about if someone will give you a chance. absent of a shared understanding of how to grade pm candidates hiring managers judge candidates based on where theyve worked which is problematic for both parties and often results in homogenous teams. the pm ceo has replaced the programmer ceo. in the same way the s was the decade that minted hacker ceos we are now witnessing the era of the pm ceo. technical idols like bill gates and steve wozniak of the s have since been replaced by a legion of ceos who cut their teeth on product teams yahoos marissa mayer slacks stewart butterfield googles sundar pichai drifts david cancel fog creek softwares anil dash and more. whats driving this pm flooding of the csuite because a pm has a disproportionate impact on setting strategy and deciding what work actually gets done she is the key to success or failure writes david auerbach in his masterful the age of the product manager. as markets mature the stakes are higher market leadership is no longer secure just by being first the product has to earn it. though its easier to start a company than ever before its harder to compete mediums ev williams laments. related articles. k april diversity reports hired releases third annual the state of wage inequality in the workplace report in we learned that accountability and commitment are critical factors when solving pay equality issues and the more. k november reports hired releases women work and the state of wage inequality uk edition i joined hired just over a year ago as a data scientist and its been one of the most. k april data diversity reports hired releases second annual report on the tech industrys gender wage gap a year into my first tech job i found out that two men on my team were being paidcompetitive analysis part how to analyze competitive information once youve gathered all of the competitive data you have been able to locate its analysis time. you should analyze to determine product information market share marketing strategies and to identify your competitions strengths and weaknesses. more product evaluation you should know from your sales staff and customer feedback what product features and benefits are most important to your customers and potential customers. a products or services competitive position is largely determined by how well it is differentiated from its competition and by its price. heres how to go about a product evaluation start with a list start by making a list of product features and benefits in order of importance and prepare a table to show whether or not each of your competitors fulfill them. indicate with a check mark which of your competitors has which features and benefits. features are fairly straightforward either a product has it or it doesnt. benefits on the other hand are not as simple and should only be recorded based on customer feedback. now use this table to evaluate your competitions product or service. how does your product compare to your closest competitors what features and benefits are unique to your product to theirs the more unique features and benefits your product has the stronger your market position will be. compare prices evaluate your competitors price. if your price for a similar product is higher than your competitors then your market position is weaker and if its lower then your competitive position is better. as a side note look for trends in pricing rather than momentary rises and falls. other factors to consider customer preference of products is only part of the analysis. some other factors to consider financial resources are they able to withstand financial setbacks how are they funding new product development and improvement operational efficiencies are they able to save time and cost with clever production and delivery techniques product line breadth how easily can they increase revenues by selling related products strategic partnerships what kinds of relationships do they have with other companies in terms of product development promotion or addon sales company morale personnel what is the motivation commitment and productivity level of the employees market share the most widely used measure of sales performance is market share. a competitor may not provide the best product or service however if they generate a significant amount of sales to the market they may define the standards for a particular product or service. influence the popular perception of the product or service. devote resources to maintaining their market share. to determine your companys market share on a percentage basis the following formula should be used current market share company sales industry sales you should then compute each of your competitors market shares. competitive objectives and strategies for each competitor in your analysis you should try to identify what their market objectives are and determine what types of strategies they are using to achieve them. objectives are your competitors trying to maintain or increase market share to maximize shortterm or longterm profits to introduce technologically improved products into your market to establish themselves as the market leaders to protect their market share under attack by strong competition to develop new markets for existing products strategies once you have identified what your competitors are trying to achieve you will need to determine what type of strategy they have employed so you can eventually counteract with a strategy of your own. some possible strategies your competitors may be employing are reducing their prices. advertising in new publications or advertising more frequently. buying out a competitor to increase market share and customer base. improving a product with a new innovation. identify the competitions strengths and weaknesses in order to develop effective competitive strategies you need to make a realistic assessment of your competitors strengths and weaknesses as viewed by the market. you need to ask yourself what each of your competitors do very well better than your own company then ask yourself in what areas are each of your competitors weak. you should construct a simple chart that summarizes this information. no matter what your market position may be you need a strong online lead generation strategy. get your free guide introduction to lead generation now. determine your competitive position in the marketplace by now it should be fairly clear to you if you are a market leader one of several followers or new to your marketplace. once you have identified and analyzed your competition and understand your competitive position you are ready to do the following identify and discuss key areas of competitive advantage and disadvantage. review the competitive environment for your product or service. comment on both similar and substitute products or services. summarize the major problems and opportunities facing your firm which may require action. issues which should be considered include types of market penetration distribution coverage product line needs price revisions and or cost reductions. integrate your analysis of the competition with demographic analysis of your market to develop and implement a marketing strategy that will strengthen your market position. what means are available to limit and control the competition now that you understand your position how can you limit and control your competition to start marketers of different brands of products will often pursue a particular market segment. segmentation allows you to focus attempts to limit and control the competition on a smaller target. there are however a broad range of strategies a business can employ in a competitive environment from price changing and new packaging to improving customer service and new product development. tags inbound marketing market research competitive analysis marketing planning processtechnical skills all growth hackers should learn technical skills all growth hackers should learn table of contents. statistics. programming. excel modeling. analytics. database querying sql. a b testing. web scraping start now marketings not a technical field right think again. as growth hacking has proven repeatedly over the last few years a datadriven approach to marketing achieves stronger more reliable results than traditional marketing. the mad men of the future will combine creativity with rigorous analysis. tweet this despite a plethora of outstanding tools that handle much of the analysis the best marketers will understand enough statistics to explore deeper insights from google analytics enough sql to access product usage logs without waiting for it to build a special interface and enough programming to effectively communicate requests to engineering. learning these seven technical skills will help you grow your product faster and more effectively. . statistics much of the effectiveness of growth hacking comes from its datadriven approach to marketing. as such a basic knowledge of statistics will help any growth marketer become more effective. now this doesnt mean you need to go back to school and major in applied stats but it does mean that investing a few hours a week learning basic statistics could be worth the time. to run a b tests well you should at least understand the basics of confidence intervals and significance. to forecast growth patterns you should at least understand regression and smoothingbased models plus data visualization. to mine insights with sql you should at least understand basic statistics and logical structuring. resources for learning khan academy udacitys intro to statistics course aleks my personal favorite challenge project predict crime use publicly available data for your city to create a predictive algorithm check for your city here. based on all the historical records build an algorithm to predict crime by type and location probably zip code. to check for accuracy you could build the algorithm off of data up to months ago then test its accuracy in predicting this past years activity. for an easier project you could use that same data to create a safety rating for each part of your city perhaps visualizing it in a map. like this map modeling energy use in nyc. programming while you shouldnt necessarily become a programmer all growth marketers should learn the basics of coding. it will help you build small things yourself like a b tests and let you communicate more effectively with your companys engineering teams. in general you should master html css and have some familiarity with these web languages ruby on rails php python remember you dont need to become an expert programmer who can rebuild pandora from scratch you just need to know enough to read code thats already written and possibly make a few small modifications. for instance im certainly far from a php master or even novice but i do know enough that i can generally find the right code to add or delete within my wordpress theme files. resources for learning code school treehouse w schools challenge project build a personal website particularly for people working in digital marketing personal branding though a portfolio website will supercharge your career. you dont need some super complicated website or even a blog but you should have some central place people can visit to learn more about you example and example. using wordpress as your website framework use coding html css and php to customize your websites look and feel. depending how ambitious youre feeling you can start with either a free or paid theme then learn as you go until you like the way your website looks. wordpress is a great framework to use for this because the wordpress support community is massive. when you hit snags in your coding the solution is probably just a search away. . excel modeling big data. everyone wants big data but no one knows what to do with it. the elephant in the room of course is that big data is absolutely useless by itself. to be useful big data must lead to big insights. tweet this and thats where excel modeling comes in. once you have data about how your customers use your service you should be able to throw that into a pivot table and uncover interesting insights. perhaps customers who downloaded ebook are twice as likely to join as those who downloaded ebook. perhaps people who got both are even more likely. youll never know unless you can turn the raw data into key learnings. happily you can learn enough excel to be dangerous pretty quickly by focusing on three key elements formulas pivot tables and macros. keyboard shortcuts will also come in handy. resources for learning pivottables introduction to excel financial modeling udemys financial modeling and valuation course challenge project mutant cell growth your neighbor a topsecret experimental scientist has noticed a disturbing number of mutant cells in his lab. knowing youre a data ninja he asked you to forecast mutant cell growth. your scientist friend currently has a total of cells in his lab and are mutant. every day each cell replicates producing normal cells and mutant cell. survival rate is low though and only out of each new cells randomly survives. at the end of days how many normal cells clones of original mutants and new mutants will your neighbors lab contain heres the full challenge. analytics with programs like google analytics and mixpanel you have lots of data at your fingertips already. but do you know what to do with it sure you know your total visitors and youre seen the colored map of visitor locations but do you know whether people are more likely to buy from an android running chrome or an iphone running safari the real power of analytics comes in segmenting visitors by platform country source demographics etc and discovering the outliers. some of these insights will result in major conversion rate boosts when applied to everyone while some will trigger boosts through advanced personalization. resources for learning official google training distilleds guide to mobile tracking distilleds guide to custom variables mixpanel university challenge project track phone conversions youre not just a normal ecommerce company that can use google analytics default conversion tracking. instead youre a local pest control chain and most of your customers convert over the phone. how will you track conversions from your advertisements online through to your conversion on the phone youll need a call tracking service my favorites callrail. most of those services make it easy to record phone calls as conversions in google. but what if you want to record your real conversions when customers actually pay thats a little more difficult but still possible youll need to write a custom script that exports from callrails api and imports through google analytics api based on user cookies. . database querying sql guis like google analytics and kissmetrics make it easy to do basic analysis but sometimes you need to really get into the weeds and study your user behavior. if you ran facebook for instance youd want to know how often users edited their profile how many new pictures they updated and how much time they spent browsing the newsfeed. that information wouldnt be in google analytics but its probably tracked in a database somewhere. using sql to query that database will give you powerful information to move the dial. perhaps newsfeed reading time is directly correlated to recency of content. youll only uncover these insights if you know how to query raw databases with sql. resources for learning w schools sql training my favorite udemys sql for marketers learn sql the hard way challenge project using the sample databases provided by w schools find the top three employees based on revenue generated. to do this youll need to join a few of the tables provided to determine the value per order and from there the revenue per employee. you could solve this quickly by simply exporting data to excel but force yourself to do it through one sql query. sql can handle much larger data sets than excel so you may as well practice using sql from the start. hint most questions you encounter can be answered here or with a quick google search. . a b testing weve all seen the power of a b testing but how many people really understand how it works beyond creating a oneoff button experiment in optimizely a good marketer should create a series of experiments designed to increase conversions and contribute to a better understanding of the target customer. over time only about of all a b tests run will likely contribute to an increased conversion rate the other should contribute to a better understanding of your customer. like most magical things a b testing isnt really that complicated once you understand it. you simply need a document recording all previous tests hypotheses results and screenshots of variations a document recording all planned experiments and a testing platform like optimizely or visual web optimizer. resources for learning unbounces ultimate guide to a b testing vwos many case studies avinash kaushiks primer on experimentation and testing challenge project create your own testing plan whether for your company or just for your own personal website create a testing plan. looking at case studies for ideas create a list of all the tests youd like to run and prioritize by potential impact. then as you test carefully document the results of each experiment and make sure you achieve statistical significance. after running a few of these tests review what youve learned about your target audience. . web scraping more information becomes available online every second but much is relatively inaccessible. imagine the potential leads you could find and the optimization gems you could uncover if only you could scrape the internet happily you can scrape the web and you dont even need to learn programming with tools like import. io you can visually identify the information you want to harvest and the scraper tool will find and aggregate similar data. if youre working in a primarily salesfocused company this is an invaluable tool. if your company is b c you can still use web scraping for everything from finding potential partners to analyzing your own blog. web scraping is one of those relatively simple skills that will put you light years ahead of the competition. resources for learning web scraping for sales and growth hackers my favorite the content marketers guide to data scraping guide to grow your blog x challenge project find potential blog partners from growthhackers. com you run growth at a b b startup that sells tools for marketers. you know partnerships with bloggers can help drive acquisition but how do you find the best partners using web scraping pull all the post user vote and comment data from growthhackers. com. then analyze the data to find the most popular blogs that could be potential partners. if youre looking for individual influencers you could do the same thing but just analyze the users instead of the blogs. for bonus points you can feed all the urls you scrape through sharedcount to get the social sharing stats also. your results will probably look something like this. most industries have their own niche forums and websites and you can leverage scraping to uncover the influencers in your market. start now the vast majority of people reading this post will do nothing. theyll nod wisely perhaps share the link on twitter to impress their friends and continue to the next post in their feed reader. a few people will try to do everything. eagerly jumping in head first theyll try to master all these technical skills simultaneously but within a day or two theyll give up overwhelmed by the sheer volume of work theyve heaped upon themselves. an even smaller group will pick one skill to start learning today. following the principle of serial excellence theyll focus on that one goal until they finish then move on to the next. reading articles about growth is a good first step but the real rewards come when you start taking action. the importance of lead generation criteria for success the importance of lead generation many businesses are struggling right nowespecially when it comes to growth. lets talk about the importance of lead generation and its impact on business growth. the importance of lead generation in sales sure many of the business struggles as of late are due to the poor economy. but many businesses are having a lead generation problem. salespeople are running out of gas because they believe theyve hit the limit of people and companies to sell their products or services to. in reality these salespeople are likely looking in the wrong places for new business dont have a process for qualifying disqualifying leads dont have buyer personas mapped out properly there is a common misconception that sales is just cold calling as many people or businesses as possible until you get a bite. the truth is finding the right targetor buyer personais just as important to sales as actually selling to them. the process of finding this new business is called lead generation. generating new sales leads one of the biggest keys to a successful business is the generation of new sales leads. a lead is a person or company that has shown some interest in the services or products that your company provides. it can also be a company or person who fits a target group for what you are providing. without leads a sales team cannot be successful. therefore generating good leads is just as important as refining your pitch or closing well. generating the right leads now you might be asking how do i generate the right leads years ago leads were developed by meeting people cold calling and purchasing lists. and as any seasoned salesperson knows pure cold calling has its flaws. sure you can generate leads through cold calling and networking but this process is very time intensive. and it shouldnt be the only lead generation source. thanks to advances in technology we now have many lead generation options. in the last years advances in technology have made it extremely easy to target and acquire ideal leads. how social media and search engines have greatly simplified the process of generating leads. it literally takes a matter of seconds to find a multitude of companies and people who fit the criteria for a potential sale. it may take some extra research to find your new leads contact information and then some more time to contact them but it will still be a thousand times faster than cold calling. its now possible to generate an extremely high volume of leads in a short period of time. the more leads you get the more pitches your sales team is ultimately going to close. for many companies it will make sense to dedicate full time employees exclusively to working on lead generation. inbound marketing experts over at hubspot have developed a treasure trove of resources on lead generation. take a look and see if you dont find some of them useful once youve started collecting some really high quality leads you might want to learn more about running an effective prospect meeting or overcoming objections. and of course lets not forget the power of linkedin want to grab a triedandtrue process to help you generate sales leads using linkedinmarket research definition entrepreneur small business market research definition the process of gathering analyzing and interpreting information about a market about a product or service to be offered for sale in that market and about the past present and potential customers for the product or service research into the characteristics spending habits location and needs of your businesss target market the industry as a whole and the particular competitors you face accurate and thorough information is the foundation of all successful business ventures because it provides a wealth of information about prospective and existing customers the competition and the industry in general. it allows business owners to determine the feasibility of a business before committing substantial resources to the venture. market research provides relevant data to help solve marketing challenges that a business will most likely facean integral part of the business planning process. in fact strategies such as market segmentation identifying specific groups within a market and product differentiation creating an identity for a product or service that separates it from those of the competitors are impossible to develop without market research. market research involves two types of data primary information. this is research you compile yourself or hire someone to gather for you. secondary information. this type of research is already compiled and organized for you. examples of secondary information include reports and studies by government agencies trade associations or other businesses within your industry. most of the research you gather will most likely be secondary. when conducting primary research you can gather two basic types of information exploratory or specific. exploratory research is openended helps you define a specific problem and usually involves detailed unstructured interviews in which lengthy answers are solicited from a small group of respondents. specific research on the other hand is precise in scope and is used to solve a problem that exploratory research has identified. interviews are structured and formal in approach. of the two specific research is the more expensive. when conducting primary research using your own resources first decide how youll question your targeted group by direct mail telephone or personal interviews. if you choose a directmail questionnaire the following guidelines will increase your response rate questions that are short and to the point a questionnaire that is addressed to specific individuals and is of interest to the respondent a questionnaire of no more than two pages a professionallyprepared cover letter that adequately explains why youre doing this questionnaire a postagepaid selfaddressed envelope to return the questionnaire in. postagepaid envelopes are available from the post office an incentive such as percent off your next purchase to complete the questionnaire even following these guidelines mail response is typically low. a return rate of percent is typical percent is considered very good. phone surveys are generally the most costeffective. here are some telephone survey guidelines have a script and memorize itdont read it. confirm the name of the respondent at the beginning of the conversation. avoid pauses because respondent interest can quickly drop. ask if a followup call is possible in case you require additional information. in addition to being costeffective speed is another advantage of telephone interviews. a rate of five or six interviews per hour is typical but experienced interviewers may be able to conduct more. phone interviews also can cover a wide geographic range relatively inexpensively. phone costs can be reduced by taking advantage of less expensive rates during certain hours. one of the most effective forms of marketing research is the personal interview. they can be either of these types a group survey. used mostly by big business group interviews or focus groups are useful brainstorming tools for getting information on product ideas buying preferences and purchasing decisions among certain populations. the indepth interview. these oneonone interviews are either focused or nondirective. focused interviews are based on questions selected ahead of time while nondirective interviews encourage respondents to address certain topics with minimal questioning. secondary research uses outside information assembled by government agencies industry and trade associations labor unions media sources chambers of commerce and so on. its usually published in pamphlets newsletters trade publications magazines and newspapers. secondary sources include the following public sources. these are usually free often offer a lot of good information and include government departments business departments of public libraries and so on. commercial sources. these are valuable but usually involve cost factors such as subscription and association fees. commercial sources include research and trade associations such as dun bradstreet and robert morris associates banks and other financial institutions and publicly traded corporations. educational institutions. these are frequently overlooked as valuable information sources even though more research is conducted in colleges universities and technical institutes than virtually any sector of the business community. public information sources government statistics are among the most plentiful and wideranging public sources. helpful government publications include the following. the state and metropolitan area data book provides a wide variety of statistical information on states and metropolitan areas in the united states. published by the u. s. census bureau its available online for through the u. s. government printing office and at larger libraries. the statistical abstract of the united states provides tables and graphs of statistics on the social political and economic conditions in the united states. published by the census bureau its available online for through the u. s. government printing office and at larger libraries. u. s. industry and trade outlook presents recent financial performances of u. s. manufacturers and identifies emerging trends. published by the commerce department in cooperation with mcgrawhill its available online for through the u. s. government printing office and at larger libraries. the u. s. government online bookstore at the u. s. government printing office has an abundance wealth of publications on topics ranging from agriculture aviation and electronics to insurance telecommunications forest management and workers compensation. the u. s. census bureau website also contains valuable information relevant to marketing. the bureaus business publications cover many topics and tradessuch as sales volume at furniture stores and payrolls for toy wholesalersand are useful for small businesses as well as large corporations in retail wholesale trade and service industries. also available are census maps reports on company statistics regarding different ethnic groups and reports on county business patterns. one of the most important information resources youll find is the sba. the sba was created by congress in to help american entrepreneurs start run and grow successful small enterprises. today there are sba offices in every state the district of columbia the u. s. virgin islands puerto rico and guam. among the services offered by the sba are financial assistance counseling services through small business development centers sbdcs management assistance through programs like score and lowcost publications. the counselors at score can provide you with free consultation on what type of research you need to gather and where you can obtain that information. they may also be able to suggest other means of gathering the information from primary sources. sbdcs generally have extensive business libraries with lots of secondary sources for you to review. one of the best public sources is the business section of your public or local college or university library. the services provided vary from library to library but usually include a wide range of government publications with market statistics a large collection of directories with information on domestic and foreign businesses and a wide selection of magazines newspapers and newsletters. almost every county government publishes population density and distribution figures in accessible census tracts. these show the number of people living in specific areas such as precincts water districts or even tenblock neighborhoods. some counties publish reports that show the population ten years ago five years ago and currently thus indicating population trends. other public information resources include local chambers of commerce and their business development departments which encourage new businesses to locate in their communities. they will supply you usually for free information on population trends community income characteristics payrolls industrial development and so on. dont overlook your bank as a resource. bankers have a wealth of information at their fingertips and are eager to help their small business customers get ahead. all you have to do is ask. commercial information sources among the best commercial sources of information are research and trade associations. information gathered by trade associations is usually limited to that particular industry and available only to association members who have typically paid a membership fee. however the research gathered by the larger associations is usually thorough accurate and worth the cost of membership. two excellent resources to help you locate a trade association that reports on the business you are researching include the encyclopedia of associations gale research and the encyclopedia of business information sources gale group. local newspapers journals magazines and radio and tv stations are some of the most useful commercial information outlets. not only do they maintain demographic profiles of their audiences their income age gender amount of disposable income and types of products and services purchased what they read and so on but many also have information about economic trends in their local areas that could be significant to your business. contact the sales departments of these businesses and ask them to send you their media kit since youre working on a marketing plan for a new product and need information about advertising rates and audience demographics. not only will you learn more about your prospective customers youll also learn more about possible advertising outlets for your product or service. dun bradstreet is another commercial source of market research that offers an abundance of information for making marketing decisions. it operates the worlds largest business database and tracks more than million companies around the world including million in the united states. for more information visit the dun bradstreet small business solutions website. finally there are educational institutions that conduct research in various ways ranging from facultybased projects often published under professors bylines to student projects theses and assignments. you may be able to enlist the aid of students involved in business classes especially if theyre enrolled in an entrepreneurship program. this can be an excellent way of generating research at little or no cost by engaging students who welcome the professional experience either as interns or for special credit. contact the university administration and marketing or management studies departments for further information. kanban and agile kanban is a set of tools you can use to become more agileto get better at doing agile scrum or whatever methodology you choose. teams practicing agile whether they are highly experienced or just starting out can use kanban software development to identify and make improvements to their existing processes. for teams just getting started with agile kanban can make it much easier to achieve their goals of achieving a more agile process flow. even for experienced agile teams using kanban can lead to new insights and opportunities for improvement. kanban at its core is very simple. visualize your work limit your work in process thanks to jim benson and tonianne demaria barry authors of personal kanban. kanban teams use kanban boards and kanban cards to represent the work and workflow. this can be a physical whiteboard with sticky notes or a virtual one using kanban software. after visualizing the work you will be able to watch how it moves across the board. kanban teams call this observing the flow of work. when there are bottlenecks in the process or blocking issues that prevent work from being completed you start to see it play out on the board. stop starting and start finishing the primary mechanism in kanban software development for improving the flow of work is the workinprocess limit. you basically set a policy for the team saying that well limit how much work is started but not finished at any one time. when the board starts to fill up with too much unfinished work team members redirect their attention and collaborate to help get some of the work finally finished before starting any more new work. how does this fit in with my agile processes agile scrum and kanban methods for project management focus on iterative delivery. teams work in twotofourweek sprints to deliver a small batch of user stories each a small part of the desired end product. teams then get that one small batch of stories completely finished by the end of the sprint. when one sprint comes to an end you demonstrate the new features to the customer and then plan the work for the next sprint. on a kanban board you visualize the flow of work. you can visualize how the work is flowing during the sprint through the very fast iterations of design develop and test that happen within each sprint. or you can let the flow of work be governed by the kanban board and replace the sprint container with a regular deployment cadence instead. its a minor difference on the surface but it can have a major impact. with the sprint approach you spend time at the beginning of every sprint trying to estimate and plan a batch of work for the entire sprint. then you work on it and push hard to have the entire batch completed tested and deployed by the end of the sprint. when youre focusing on flow and using kanban you could still deploy completed code every two weeks. but instead of going through the whole cycle of planning estimating and moving a batch of work through to completion you can move work through the system without batching two weeks of work at a time. planning and estimating designing building and testing can happen for each individual item as it reaches the top of the priority list in the backlog. when theres capacity on the kanban board for more work wip limits are being honored and people are available to do more work they pull the next item to work on. when the twoweek cadence comes around you simply deliver whatever is ready to deliver. this encourages members of the team to take each item all the way through to completion individually instead of focusing on having a twoweek batch of work completed at one time. you ensure that each item is done. with a capital d. donedone some people call it. and you get it to donedone before pulling the next item available for you to work on. the agile practice of iterative delivery is a huge improvement over old waterfall or stagegate project management methods. focusing on agile process flow using kanban can sometimes be even more efficient resulting in shorter lead times and higher productivity. it can lessen the feeling of always starting and stopping without abandoning the value of having a regular cadence to work toward. does this mean that youd be abandoning scrum for kanban or abandoning agile for kanban heck no. agile and scrum are both about much more than the sprint. besides if you throw out the existing process be it scrum waterfall or anything else youve got no starting point for your kanban system. kanban itself is a process improvement approach not a process of its own. its something you apply to an existing process like scrum or whatever your current process happens to be kanban vs. agile is kanban agile then eh not really. when considering agile vs. kanban there are fundamental differences between the two. the ideas behind kanban come from the world of lean manufacturing as a way of doing something called justintime production. it was developed by toyota kanban is japanese for visual card in the s. further development of the ideas for using kanban for knowledge work like software development was done by david anderson jim benson corey ladas alan shalloway karl scotland alison vale david joyce and a sizeable community of people interested in applying principles from the world of lean to software development devops and other kinds of knowledge work beginning around. while agile is still growing and adapting most of the ideas we associate with agile had begun to solidify long before kanban came around. so including kanban as part of agile muddies the waters a bit. agile process flow was developed primarily by software developers to define better ways of developing and delivering software. see the agile manifesto. kanban and the lean principle of flow arent specific to how we develop software. the flow system works very well for that but it turns out it also works well in places where agiles iterative delivery model has struggled. it operations for example or software teams focused on churning out small bug fixes and enhancements to existing production systems is a great place where the flow principle produces a ton of value. for some environments it just isnt practical to batch up work in two week chunks. the need for some teams to respond in real time to a constant stream of incoming requests makes selecting a batch of them to work on only every two weeks pretty impractical. for that matter the principles of kanban software development can work equally well for just about any kind of work creating marketing campaigns event planning contract negotiation legal project management inventory management. and many more. since kanban doesnt start by assuming anything about your process or what youre doing it can be applied to anything that has a process. it can be as simple a process as todo doing done or something far more complex. what kind of work couldnt benefit from better visibility what kind of work couldnt benefit from focusing on getting more work finished instead of starting more new work whenever you get the chance so without abandoning any of the good stuff in agile scrum extreme programmingand without abandoning any of the good stuff about your current process that is already working well for you you can apply kanban to it to get better visibility and apply kanban tools to help you improve the flow of work. product development turning months into weeks by james doyle on july how quickly your definition of ambitious can change. five years ago getting a dog starting a web company working on huge projects here at invoke all would have seemed hugely ambitious to me but ive done them all. building an effective realtime chat that syncs perfectly between consumers and supports ecommerce would have been ambitious five years ago. but weve just pulled it off in under a month. weve built a consumertoconsumer c c platform that through chat enables users to discuss their purchase make offers and determine shipping methods. they can accept the terms and even generate an invoice. they can conduct business with each other without ever leaving the chat. in the past building a chat like this would be an incredibly ambitious endeavour. but thanks to newly available technologies it was easy for us too. simpler faster better in the past you would have needed to invest in some serious servers and work some sort of eventpolling magic if you wanted your chat to have a chance of feeling nice and snappy. now we live in the good times. there are options like websockets and webrtc to choose from but we opted for a service weve used on other projects google firebase. firebase is a service for creating and syncing a realtime database across clients. one user makes a change and everyone else sees it. for our app a user can immediately see when another user has added a message. all our data is organized in a relatively flat structurepurposefully duplicating the data we think well need to make for simpler data queries. simpler means faster and faster means a better user experience. but what really sells it for us is just how easy it is to get started. the fantastic features and vibrant development community surrounding firebase make getting your product launched that much more efficient in fact some large companies have also taken note and are using it. if youve ever wondered what song was playing and decided to fire up shazam youve used this tech too. a world of integrations the scale and community investment that comes from a google service like firebase means that not only do you benefit from the core features of the service you can also easily connect and integrate with other tools. this lets us tackle complex problems at lightning speed. we needed to be able to let users know when they have unread messages. for this we used the amazon elastic beanstalk service to deploy a node. js server. and wouldnt you know it node. js has a firebase adapter. when it is connected to our database it listens for changes. when it notices a new message it stamps it with the time and marks it as unread. not only did this help us quickly to let users know about unread messages but the elastic beanstalk service also helps us mitigate any problems we might accidentally create at our end. the eb command line tool makes updating code a breeze by stamping each update as a release. that way if someone accidentally pushes buggy code to the live site we tap a button and things revert back to normal. this reversion capability reduces our risk and lets us frequently update and refine the products that are being powered by these tools and services. with ongoing user feedback and analytics to base our decisions on a release isnt a big deal. we can just do it. cut the costs new technologies arent just making things faster easier and less risky theyre also making them cheaper. the chat product we built uses lambda functions from aws to schedule emails. lambda lets us create a schedule that emails our users with any unread messages in their conversations. why does this matter its because this takes advantage of ondemand computing. instead of paying to run a server we only pay every few hours when our function runs. its the sharing economy of computing and it can drastically reduce the costs required to run a modern service. in a lot of cases this could be by over. so what has the development taught us weve seen that technology solutions like firebase elastic beanstalk and lambda are making the development teams building products happier but the benefits extend across product teams. when launches happen quicker strategy and design teams can analyze how users interact with the product that much sooner and make improvements even faster. it also means that funding and budgets are freed up to let developers test and refine code. designers can conduct user tests and strategists can validate product directions and roadmaps. above all it means that its now that much easier to determine exactly where our product is and what new heights well be able to reach next. mergers and acquisitions a complete guide cleverism c l e v e r i s m c l e v e r i s m resume resume templates cover letter templates jobs jobs companies courses job interview magnet job interview rockstar clever salary negotiation clever networking formula learn magazine lexicon login signup resume resume templates cover letter templates jobs jobs companies courses job interview magnet job interview rockstar clever salary negotiation clever networking formula learn magazine lexicon login sign up mergers and acquisitions a complete guide by martin january by martin january home magazine mergers and acquisitions a complete guide mergers and acquisitions are part of strategic management of any business. it involves consolidation of two businesses with an aim to increase market share profits and influence in the industry. mergers and acquisitions are complex processes which require preparing analysis and deliberation. there are a lot of parties who might be affected by a merger or an acquisition like government agencies workers and managers. before a deal is finalized all party needs to be taken into consideration and their concerns should be addressed so that any possible hurdles can be avoided. shutterstock. com max sattana in this article we look at an introduction to ma motives for ma transaction characteristics and regulations and other hurdles. introduction to mergers acquisitions mergers and acquisitions is a technical term used to define the consolidation of companies. when two companies are combined to form a single unit it is known as merger while an acquisition refers to the purchase of company by another one which means that no new company is formed but one company has been absorbed into another. mergers and acquisitions are important component of strategic management which comes under corporate finance. the subject deals with buying selling dividing and combining various companies. it is a type of restructuring with the aim to grow rapidly increase profitability and capture a greater proportion of a market share. parties in an acquisition the target company is the company that is being acquired. the acquirer company is the company that is acquiring the target. mergers can be divided into three types horizontal merger it happens when both companies are in the same line of business which means they are usually competitors. example disney bought lucasfilm. both companies were involved in production of film tv shows. vertical merger this happens when two companies are in the same line of production but stage of production is different. example microsoft bought nokia to support its software and provide hardware necessary for the smartphone. conglomerate merger this happens when the two companies are in totally different line of business. example berkshire hathaway acquired lubrizol. this kind of merger mostly takes place in order to diversify and spread the risks in case the current business stops yielding adequate profits. introduction to ma the main difference between a merger and an acquisition is that a merger is a form of legal consolidation of two companies which are formed into a single entity while an acquisition happens when one company is absorbed by another company which means that the company that is purchasing the other company continues to exist. in the recent years the distinction between the two has become more and more blurred as companies have started doing joint ventures. sometimes acquirer wants to keep the name of the acquired company as it has goodwill value attached to it. mergers and acquisitions are complex area of a company longterm strategy. the process takes a long time at times even years. it involves number of parties and stakeholders the two companies which are being merged or coordinating to venture are the main stakeholders since any changes in the structure of the company is likely impact both companies. employees will also be affected since they are an integral part of the companies. at times during a merger or acquisition employees have to be laid off. the government agencies play a decisive role in any merger or acquisition as they want to make sure that the ma does not create a monopoly or impinge on the rights of general public. any merger of acquisition must not be a hurdle to competitive environment in the industry. pressure groups would be interested in the impact the merger or acquisition would have on the environment worker welfare consumer welfare and overall social impact the collusion. some companies manufacture product services that are controversial hence detested by some people. firms must find a way to deal with possible hostility from these people. competitors would be interested in a possible merger or acquisition between two companies in the industry since a collusion could threaten to take away their market share as the combined company would be more powerful financially and strategically. financial institutions also have a stake in possible merger or acquisition since the companies involved might have outstanding debt. alternatively a company involved in a postmerger or an acquisition might want to borrow more money so that the financial institutions would have to evaluate the companys financial standing and ability to repay it later. the mergers and acquisitions process motives for mergers and acquisitions synergy from the strategic point of view the main motive behind a merger or acquisition is to improve the companys performance for its shareholders through synergy which is a concept that states that the value and performance of two companies combined will be greater than the sum of the separate individual parts. two businesses can combine to form one company which can generate more revenues that could be done if they worked independently. this is why potential synergy from merger and acquisition is evaluated before the decision is made. growth mergers or acquisitions can exponentially increase the growth of the company as it has more resources at its disposal. when two companies combine their expertise assets and market share are also combined which leads to more opportunity in the market for growth. the market share which was previously shared by two companies will now exclusively belong to one company. the increased market power is likely to generate more opportunities for sales revenue and profitability. acquiring unique capabilities sometimes mergers and acquisitions take place in order to acquire unique capabilities or resources which could prove paradigmshifting for the company. this would include patents and licenses which the acquiring company will gain access to once the merger is completed. a patent license or certain technology could make a lot difference for the company which could help it substantially increase sales and profits since it might create a natural monopoly situation for the new company. when two different companies combine it could also result in unlocking hidden value which becomes apparent as resources and experiences combined bring innovation and efficiency. exploiting the market market systems in most economies are not perfect which means there is room for companies to exploit these imperfections to their own advantage. taking over another company or merger could facilitate a monopolylike situation which would give the company an edge over its competitors. alternately a merger could be done with a motive to control the supply of certain raw materials which will give the company an undue advantage over other companies. as an answer to government policies mergers and acquisitions also take place in order to cope with adverse government policies which may require a certain size of a firm to exist. some governments offer tax breaks and other incentives to large corporations which encourage mergers as more profit can be made as tax liability is lower. in order to deal with government pressure to survival within an industry companies mergers and acquisitions have greater leverage to influence government policies. transfer of technology another popular reason for mergers and acquisitions is transfer of technology especially for highly specialized companies with unique technologies. companies buy other companies in an attempt to acquire a certain technology which is patented or unique. subsequently these technologies are used to make better products services hence greater market share and profits. to handle large clients mergers and acquisitions especially in the service industry also take place in order to follow big clients. there are a lot of examples of such ma activity happening for law firms since sometimes the clients are so big it forces firms to merge in order to serve them better. the merged firms have more resources and expertise to handle powerful clients. it also gives companies a way to bootstrap earning hence better performance at the stock exchange for listed companies. diversification mergers and acquisitions allow companies to diversify into other areas of business hence it spreads risks and present opportunity for more sales profits and recognition in the market. for example if clothing store merges with a textile company it would help both companies since they would be able to keep a greater margin of profit. diversification can also take place in a totally different industry altogether. for example if a restaurant chain store acquires a clothing store it would have reduced its risks since even if people stop eating out hypothetically speaking they could still make money from the clothing store and other way. personal incentives in some rare cases a merger or an acquisition is initialised due to managers personal incentives in form of higher salary benefits etc. and has nothing to do with strategic planning. transaction characteristics there are several methods of payment for an ma activity described below. stock purchase this transaction requires acquirer to provide cash stock or combination of cash and stock in exchange for the shares of the company being acquired. this requires shareholders approval since shares cant be bought without their consent. any gain made by the shareholders on their capital is taxed by the government. asset purchase this requires acquirer to buy all the target firms assets. the payment in made directly to the firm. this kind of transaction may not require shareholders approval permission. acquirer in most cases wont assume the responsibility for firms liabilities which would mean that the firm being acquired would have to settle the debt on its own. cash offering this kind of transaction simply requires payment in cash. security offering in this case shareholders are given shares of common stock preferred stock or in some cases debt of the acquirer. the exchange ratio is calculated bases on number of securities in exchange for a share of target stock. factors influencing method of payment there are various factors that need to be considered before method of payment is decided. the risk is usually shared among acquirer and target shareholders in a certain ratio. the ratio is decided based on financial standing of each company. moreover signaling by the acquiring firm is also important they are in a much stronger position to dictate terms. balance sheet and other financial documents are an immense help in ascertaining the capital structure of the acquiring firm which becomes an important consideration when it comes to method of payment. another important consideration includes the financial leverage the acquirer enjoys. if the company is highly leveraged more debt wouldnt be recommended and liability if the target company will not be assumed. attitude of management from the perspective of the board of directors of the target companies the merger can be classified into two broad categories a friendly merger this happens when the board of directors agree negotiate and finally accept an offer. a hostile merger this happens when the board of directors attempt to prevent the merger. in case of a hostile takeover takeover defenses are used with the intention to either prevent the transaction or increase the bid. directors may trigger preoffer mechanism which makes the target company seem less attractive. this prevents the acquiring firm from making a decent offer. alternatively directors may try postoffer mechanism which include addressing ownership of shares hence reducing acquirers power gained from its ownership. regulations and other hurdles legal due diligence it is an important exercise of an ma transaction and helps both parties identify any legal risks associated with the merger. due diligence also provides an opportunity to minimize those risks. at the initial stage all corporate documents are thoroughly reviewed which include articles of association. it also covers aspects relating to registrations of companys employees with the regulatory authorities. the second phase includes reviewing details related to companys shareholders financial liabilities contractual rights and obligations. there are several regulatory considerations when performing ma. in some cases there is a need to obtain specific approvals from an ma transaction from government regulatory bodies especially when the company is part of core economic activities of the country like banking insurance electricity or water supply. some areas of economy require licenses and nocs to collude. additionally government agencies exist that ensure industries stay competitive. ma transactions usually present a possibility of collusion between firms in order to raise price and create a monopoly situation. this situation generated extraordinary profits for the company but exploits consumers since they dont have a choice and end up purchasing the goods at a higher price. competition commissions exist on order to make sure that markets stay competitive. some countries have foreign capital investment laws which prevent foreign companies from investing locally or set a certain investment limit. there are no ways around these hurdles which means that ma transaction cannot be executed and finished. as the firm grows in size after ma transaction a different set of tax brackets may be applicable. this needs to be takes into considerations since it could adversely impact companys profits. such a development will be irksome to shareholders and other stakeholders. labor laws some countries have stringent labor laws which need to be taken into account before ma transaction take place. big firms find themselves in spotlight when it comes to labor laws. the acquirer needs to understand how the labor laws are going to impact the company once the merger is complete. moreover the politics of labor unions also needs to be understood and reconciled with. sometimes the employees are not happy with the proposed merger which could threaten to disrupt the operations of the company. it must also be made sure that labor is not exploited under the new administration which can be done by paying a fair wage providing safe working condition and health insurance. boost your job visibility and reach more highly qualified active and passive job seekers a boosted job also called premium job will be shown ahead of all other similar basic jobs in the job search. in addition boosted jobs are included in the recommended jobs widget and thereby reach passive job seekers. on cleverism you reach more than m highperformance active and passive job seekers a year. gender age education boost your job s and benefit from more highly qualified applicants faster timetohire and lower costtohire. act fast because well be raising prices soon. questions contact us here outstanding employer branding that attracts the right talents a premium company profile puts your company ahead of all other similar companies in the company search. in addition you are included in the company recommendation widget so you reach more passive job seekers. on cleverism you reach more than m highperformance active and passive job seekers a year. gender age education turn on employer branding and benefit from more relevant job applicants and shorter timetohire. with digital media always changing its important for startups to constantly keep abreast of the best marketing strategies. and thats why marketing expert and friend of the founder institute shivankit arora has written this guest post that outlines the basic strategies a startup can employ to increase their internet presence. growth hacking has been riding the tide in the startup world for a while. while the phrase has been used by marketers more often than before most of them still limit the concept to search engine optimization email automation and social media marketing strategy etc. however this is not what defines growth hacking. growth hacking refers to a set of marketing channels that will trigger your business growth in a data driven and cost effective fashion. a successful growth hack comprises the following brainstorming and experimenting with a number of hypotheses to come down to a marketing strategy to take your startup to the next level. continuously optimising your efforts cpas and and user retention with the discovered hacks. now that we understand what growth hacking is all about lets have a look into the growth hacking funnel or what it is popularly known as startup marketing funnel. growth hacking funnel the growth hacking funnel for startup marketing comprises of stages based on the aarrr model. image source referral saasquatch acquisition for startup or a small business this stage is where you gain the necessary awareness among your target audience to see results from your marketing efforts. activation now that your audience knows about your business and the services products you have to offer its time to convert them into customers. this stage helps you take your audience closer to the customer stage. retention the market is where you meet your competitors. however theres must be something that gives you an edge over others. this is the stage where you tap into your usp to convince your customer to keep using your product or service instead of multiple options available in the market. referral it wouldnt be wrong to say that word of mouth marketing is the best form of marketing out there. this is the stage that deals with getting more customers out of your existing set of customers. revenue this is the end result achieved after optimised execution of all the above steps. here you need to understand how your business will maintain a healthy cash flow with rising profit margin. now that we have a basic understanding of the startup marketing funnel lets dive into some these stages with examples from popular startups. . acquisition how airbnb generates the right awareness for their product the founders of airbnb brian chesky and joe gebbia had just raised some initial funds for their business. however soon they started brainstorming better ways to scale their business rather than the current way of paid acquisition. they began by narrowing down their market research to one basic question. what are the digital channels where there target audience searches for something more than just a standard hotel experience craigslist was the answer. the next thing that airbnb had under their radar was to get their listings on craigslist too. this would help them get more traction for their own listings. the results using this hack airbnb managed to pull in thousands of users from craigslist. moreover since their listings were much more comprehensive aided with better descriptions and photographs than craigslist the idea led to a viral growth cycle. image source growth hackers. activation how to activate users the paypal style paypal grew to million users in summer from million users in march. this is one of the reasons why it is one of the most growthoriented startup of the late s. the first step they took to trigger growth is activate users by paying them to sign up. with every sign up you were credited apart from for a referral. over a period of time as the number of signups boomed exponentially they reduced the bonus offered eventually fropping down to nothing. this way paypal makes a classic example of activating users by awarding them adaptive incentives. while the company did invest in varied advertising practises the above method was the best hack to achieve lowest cac. image source quora. retention how groove pulled down their churn rate by one of the major obstacles every saas company faces is high churn rates. churn rate is nothing but the percentage of people exiting out of your subscription based business. groove was one of them. groove is an easy to use help desk software for businesses coming at per user. although the company had a healthy flow of new users grooves. churn rate was gradually turning the business model on an unsustainable path. so the folks at groove analyzed users who stayed onboard for more than days and the ones who quit before that. they divided people in the following categories at the end of a lot of brainstorming groove made up its mind to send targeted emails to people who spent less time on the platform or and were likely to opt out after days period. people who were spending less than minutes on the site in one session were sent this message image source kissmetrics for someone who checked in fewer than times in the first days was sent the following message image source kissmetrics the results this conversion optimization strategy helped groove reduce their churn rate by as much as. understanding the point where your users struggle while using your product service and addressing the same could just save the day for you. . referral dropbox fueled their growth by tapping into referral marketing the success mantra for dropbox to be one of the most popular tech startups is tapping into the power of referral marketing. with a paid marketing campaign under progress dropbox spent per customer for a product that was priced at. every friend you referred dropbox to was in turn credited with mb additional storage. you got to earn up to gb of free space using this hack. image source referral candy the next thing they gave attention to was making sure the referral process was as smooth as possible. image source referral candy the key takeaway here is that word of mouth marketing is a powerful hack to pull in more users traffic onboard. incorporating referral signups purchases in your business model with complementary incentives for customers can trigger growth. . revenue the growth engine of picmonkey picmonkey is a company in the photo editing space. but their share of growth hack involves building a great product with a freemium model. while millions of users were joining in every month they were editing billions of photos using picmonkey. while they could access basic filters for free advanced filters and tools were available for a monthly fee of. . in addition to this hundreds of thousands of users pay that subscription price. image source fortune the company has been riding the tide of increasing profits ever since with the exact growth being year over year. the major takeaway here is that going freemium could be the ultimate growth hack for your business. offering a part of your service as free is a way of educating them how good your product is and in turn assuring them of the value theyll get once they purchase the premium product service. in a nutshell growth hacking isnt just about seo or social media marketing. it comprises of an optimised mix of digital marketing strategies and tools that can pull in significant traction for your business in a costeffective way. about the author shivankit arora is a growth hacker and the founder of a startup marketing agency marketingmasala. com. the trick to viral growth tyler willis july i recently helped a friend prioritize their measurement framework for a series of growth experiments. heres a lightly edited version of my advice. when looking to focus on user growth its generally helpful to look at key metrics. time to first share length of sharing period k factor how many new users does each user bring in. the time it takes for a user share for the first time dictates how quickly you start growing. most explosive growth applications have invite friends features early in the signup usage flow. length of sharing period will tell you how sustained your user growth will be. if you have an actively engaged user who will continue inviting users for a long time youll be less reliant on having to goose growth through new user acquisition methods. this number will be directly tied to your engagement metrics. the k factor is a simple calculation of how many users each new user brings in over a period of time. if you get this number over you have an application that will continue to grow virally until it runs into saturation. if youre working on a new project youll generally want to analyze these on fairly short timelines what happens day to day or week to week. youll also probably focus first on time to first share is because thats the fastest way to get feedback data on whether your product and acquisition flows work. usually thats the best place to start you can move on to longer timeframes and the other two factors after that. in search of the hybrid ideal social entrepreneurship in search of the hybrid ideal in the first largescale quantitative study of nascent social entrepreneurs researchers from harvard business school and echoing green examine the rise of hybrid organizations that combine aspects of nonprofits and forprofits and the challenges hybrids face as they attempt to integrate traditionally separate organizational models. by julie battilana matthew lee john walker cheryl dorsey summer recent news coverage of hot bread kitchen reads as if it were written about two different organizations. the new york city bakery is widely acclaimed for its innovative selection of international breads but it is simultaneously an awardwinning workforce development program. hot bread kitchen is a hybrid organization its employees mostly lowincome immigrant women bake bread inspired by their countries of origin while learning job skills that can lead them to management positions in the food industry. in this way hot bread kitchen combines two traditionally separate models a social welfare model that guides its workforce development mission and a revenue generation model that guides its commercial activities. to outside observers combining social welfare and revenue generation models might seem unnatural. but hot bread kitchens founder jessamyn rodriguez whose professional experience includes training at daniel bouluds flagship restaurant as well as a decade working in international development pursued a vision for how each would complement the other. the business model would use product sales to fund its social mission reducing dependence on donations grants and subsidies as well as to scale up the organization. rather than take a nonprofit model and add a commercial revenue streamor take a forprofit model and add a charity or service programhot bread kitchens integrated hybrid model produces both social value and commercial revenue through a single unified strategy. hot bread kitchen exemplifies a larger trend among social innovators toward creating hybrid organizations that primarily pursue a social mission but rely significantly on commercial revenue to sustain operations. such hybrids have long existed in certain sectors such as job training health care and microcreditbut in recent years they have begun to appear in new sectors including environmental services consulting retail consumer products catering and information technology. as part of the first largescale quantitative research study of nascent social entrepreneurs a collaborative team from harvard business school and echoing green a nonprofit with a year record of supporting early stage social entrepreneurs reviewed more than recent echoing green fellowship applications to better understand hybrid models. over the last five years applications from organizations that combined earned and donated revenue grew significantly in and almost percent relied on hybrid models vs. percent in. these entrepreneurs sought to address social issues in domains as diverse as hunger health care economic development environment education housing culture law and politics. this recent increase in the number of hybrids results in part from social entrepreneurs willingness to be less dependent on donations and subsidies as well as from an increased interest in creating sustainable financial models in the wake of the financial crisis. like hybrid species in nature hybrid organizational models can be a fountain of innovation. but they also face distinct challenges that may prevent them from thriving. when organizations combine social mission with commercial activities they create unfamiliar combinations of activities for which a supportive ecosystem may not yet exist. hybrids also must strike a delicate balance between social and economic objectives to avoid mission drift in this case a focus on profits to the detriment of the social good. this article examines hybrids and the specific challenges they face in legal recognition financing pricing of goods and services and creating a balanced organizational culture. we also explore emerging solutions to these challenges for those seeking to combine the valuecreating potential of forprofits and nonprofits. integration as the hybrid ideal the organization of the commercial and social sectors has long been governed by an assumption of independence between commercial revenue and social value creation. for more than a century activities necessary to create commercial revenue it was assumed could not substantially affect or improve on social welfare and vice versa. thus most organizations that sought to pursue social value and commercial revenue simultaneously pursued differentiated strategies. for instance corporate philanthropy programs were viewed as a nonbusiness activity and were conducted at arms length from corporations core activities. on the other hand many nonprofit organizations attempted to sell products or services creating revenue streams to reduce dependence on philanthropic and public funders. yet earned income programs often unrelated to the core activities of nonprofits did not always live up to expectations. today it is clear that the independence of social value and commercial revenue creation is a myth. in reality the vectors of social value and commercial revenue creation can reinforce and undermine each other. the social consequences of the recent financial crisis demonstrated with great clarity the danger of negative externalities social costs resulting from corporate profitseeking activities. but in some cases positive externalities may also exist. it is this possibility that integrated hybrid models seek to exploit. when we talk to entrepreneurs and students about hybrid organizations a common theme that emerges is what we call the hybrid ideal. this hypothetical organization is fully integratedeverything it does produces both social value and commercial revenue. this vision has at least two powerful features. in the hybrid ideal managers do not face a choice between mission and profit because these aims are integrated in the same strategy. more important the integration of social and commercial value creation enables a virtuous cycle of profit and reinvestment in the social mission that builds largescale solutions to social problems. perhaps the most visible example of the pursuit of the hybrid ideal is microfinance. for many the revolutionary appeal of the microfinance movement was that poverty might be alleviated in a way that does not require continuous subsidies. when carefully managed an additional loan can equal both more revenue and more of the desired social impact. as we have seen in microfinance and other industries where hybrids have grown however the realworld pursuit of the hybrid ideal is fraught with potential missteps. recent scandals and critiques of microfinance institutions have focused on a drift away from social mission to more typical forprofit prioritiesleading many observers to question whether social problems such as extreme poverty can be solved through strategies that also produce revenue. despite these obstacles our research reveals that some hybrids manage to integrate social and commercial activities sustainably. still even when leaders manage to avoid mission drift integrated hybrids can struggle to find a suitable place between the forprofit and nonprofit sectors especially in their quest for legal recognition and access to capital markets and labor. we review these challenges in the four sections below. challenge legal structure until recently organizations in most countries had two main legal structure options each offering certain benefits. forprofits focus for the most part on shareholder value maximization and are permitted to distribute returns to investors. nonprofits singularly pursue a charitable purpose and in return governments offer substantial tax benefits. nonprofits also benefit from social legitimacy and goodwill that attracts grants donations volunteers pro bono professionals and other free or inexpensive resources. in this context an entrepreneur seeking to create a hybrid organization faces a difficult and often confusing dilemma. if the organization becomes a nonprofit selling products or services it may have to pay tax on revenues associated with those activities and it could also lose its taxexempt status if the activities are sufficiently disconnected from its primary charitable purpose. yet if the organization becomes a forprofit it may be discouraged from pursuing social impact by the pressures of competitive markets as well as fiduciary responsibilities that generally prioritize profit maximization over other concerns. in other words hybrid entrepreneurs can claim the organizational benefits of only one of the multiple forms of value they create. indeed a hybrid that registers as a nonprofit cannot access equity capital markets because it cannot legally sell ownership stakes to investors. but if a hybrid incorporates as a forprofit it cannot offer the same tax benefits to donors as registered nonprofits can even if these approaches lead to the most effective social solution. further complicating the choice is the reality that entrepreneurs cannot fully anticipate their future resource needs at the time legal registration choices are made and thus risk being prematurely locked in to one sector or the other. one solution adopted by a number of hybrid entrepreneurs is to exploit the benefits of both legal structures. this typically entails the creation of two separate legal entities one a forprofit and the other a nonprofit. embrace an organization attempting to commercialize a lowcost incubator for premature infants was originally a nonprofit social enterprise. after testing the product in india the organization explored various options for financing further growthbut found the financing alternatives under the c umbrella to be limited. to access a wider pool of capital and scale up its operations embrace created a forprofit called embrace innovations. the nonprofit owns equity in the forprofit a structure that gives the nonprofit power to control the activities of the joint venture while protecting its social mission. despite its benefits this multipleentity approach also entails complex design requirements and administrative separation that can burden management. to create better options for hybrids several efforts are under way to establish new types of legal structures. in the united states there are three such forms the l c lowprofit limited liability company the benefit corporation and the flexible purpose corporation. the l c is a variant of an llc designed primarily to enable companies to access investment from taxexempt sources such as private foundations. the benefit corporation is a corporate form passed in seven states and pending in four others that requires organizations to consider a designated social purpose and corresponding social impact alongside financial analysis in making strategic and tactical business decisions. the flexible purpose corporation which has passed in california and washington where it is called the social purpose corporation requires boards and management to agree on one or more social and environmental purposes with shareholders while providing additional protection against liability for directors and management. around the world other hybrid legal structures have emerged. in the uk for example a community interest company cic provides tax benefits to hybrids that agree to limit their distributions to investors. a cic once given governmental approval has its assets frozen and designated for general community benefit. investors can receive capped dividends on their investment but the principal is never retrieved. yet in the united states europe and elsewhere legal registration is just the tip of the iceberg in terms of how legal systems affect the growth and success of hybrids. areas of corporate law such as the tax code were not built for organizations that pursue social and financial value. still the emergence of new hybrid legal structures will likely encourage increased hybrid activity. what remains to be seen is which legal structures will be the best fit for hybrids. challenge financing as in the case of legal structures financing has evolved for forprofits and nonprofits but not for hybrids. on the one hand the forprofit sector has sophisticated vehicles for financing through equity and debt. on the other hand a smaller but similarly specialized infrastructure of national and community foundations early stage fellowship grantors and venture philanthropists exists to provide funding to the nonprofit sector. although these sources of nonprofit capital are scarce they have long been the typical source of funding for organizations pursuing a social mission. the current pathway to funding for hybrids is not so clear. one approach is to adopt a differentiated funding strategy that accesses profitseeking investors for commercial activities and nonprofit fundraising and public subsidies for social activities. sanergy inc. a waste conversion startup that installs toilets in some of the poorest slums in the world leverages such an approach. during sanergys leaders created two organizations a nonprofit and a forprofit each of which is uniquely dependent on the other for its sustained existence. under this hybrid structure the forprofit develops and scales up capitalintensive sanitation technology and infrastructure and the nonprofit supports sanitation infrastructure and services within lowincome communities. reflecting on this funding approach david auerbach sanergys cofounder said weve found that grant funders are comfortable with the social mission priorities in the nonprofit and that investors like the fact that we cannot fulfill our financial goal without actually providing hygienic sanitation. both are inextricably linked. instead of relying on a differentiated funding strategy many hybrid entrepreneurs focus initially on getting funding from the nonprofit sector. apart from traditional nonprofit sources of funding in the form of grants or donations programrelated investments pris which enable private foundations to allocate investments through equity debt or a mixture of bothhave increased access to capital for us hybrids. we find that many hybrid entrepreneurs have been able to find supportive capital partners through this type of early stage financing. meanwhile some hybrid entrepreneurs have started targeting more typical forprofit sources of funding. in the case of frogteka forprofit social venture that develops business tools for microentrepreneurs in emerging marketsceo david del ser decided to incorporate as a forprofit because he believed startup financing could come from mainstream venture capital enabling faster growth. but del ser admits that attracting venture capital has been significantly more challenging than initially envisaged. he attributes the difficulty to investors inability to quantify frogteks risk even though the return potential is attractive. still frogtek has been successful in engaging angel investors whose values align with those of the organization. clearly traditional early stage equity financing methods used by the venture capital industry are not suited to social ventures. rather investors who embrace the same dual objectives as hybrid entrepreneurs are needed. one such group is impact investors who are comfortable with hybrid models and their blend of social value creation and commercial revenue. despite recent estimates that the global impact investing market will be at least billion within the next decade most hybrid entrepreneurs we have encountered still experience difficulty in raising capital. solving this challenge will require changes in the mindsets of investors who will have to accept a return that can range from a below market to market rate as well as improved capital placement structures. challenge customers and beneficiaries traditional businesses usually think of their consumers as customers whereas traditional nonprofits think of their consumer base as beneficiaries. hybrids however break this traditional customerbeneficiary dichotomy by providing products and services that when consumed produce social value. when consumption yields both revenue and social value customers and beneficiaries may become indistinguishable. this kind of integration is powerful in part because it resolves the deeply felt tension between mission and growth. when customers and beneficiaries are the same focusing on growth doesnt take away resources from beneficiaries rather growth of sales and fulfillment of mission are inseparable. it should be no surprise that many of the fastest growing hybrids have this feature including microfinance and other models in the developing world that produce goods and services for the bottom of the pyramid. depending on the social issue that they aim to address however hybrid entrepreneurs may not be able to integrate social value creation with earning commercial revenue in a single transaction. an obvious challenge to this type of integration is that many beneficiary groups lack the financial means to pay for the value they receive from a product or service. even when products or services create financial value for beneficiaries the realization of that value may be so distant that it is impractical to recapture. for example educational programs might increase a childs future earnings but organizations cannot recoup the childs future wealth. for this and a myriad of other areas addressed by the social sector integration of customers and beneficiaries may never be possible or desirable. hybrid organizations addressing these types of social problems typically differentiate between customers and beneficiaries. mobile school a belgian nonprofit for example provides educational materials to children who live on the streets through a mobile school basically a box on wheels containing blackboards and educational board games. because mobile school serves poor children it cannot sustain its operations through selling materials or equipment to its beneficiaries. instead founder arnoud raskin launched a consulting business streetwize which is incorporated as a social purpose company in belgium. streetwizes activities which are separate from mobile school generate revenue to sustain the nonprofits operations. the board members of mobile school are shareholders of streetwize. although they can be effective and sustainable such differentiated approaches raise a number of challenges for hybrids that may need to make tradeoffs between serving customers and beneficiaries. as raskin puts it when we created streetwize there was a risk for streetwize and mobile school to grow into two disconnected organizations. although they are two separate entities engaged in different activities the challenge is to make sure that they both remain focused on the mission of mobile school. i view my role as making sure that we never compromise on this. yet such differentiated approaches are not the only options for hybrids. some still have different populations of customers and beneficiaries but their social and economic activities are more integrated. the beneficiaries of hot bread kitchen for example produce and sell a product for customers while learning job skills. in this case social value is intimately related to sales but is not contained in the product or service itself. certain products and services that are valuable to both customers and beneficiaries create opportunities for even more integrated models. indeed for some hybrids such as commercial microfinance organizations the beneficiaries of the service are the only customers of the organization. this overlap enables the organization to focus on one set of activities that fulfill its social and financial objectives. like all hybrids however these organizations are still subject to the risk of mission drift as they may give priority to profit seeking over social mission. this drifting may lead them to either start charging higher prices or expand their customer pool by targeting wealthier and more profitable market segments. challenge organizational culture and talent development all hybrid organizations face the challenge of remaining focused on their missions. at early stages the passion and dedication of the entrepreneur can organically communicate such commitment within the organization. but as organizations grow the influence of entrepreneurs on new staff becomes less direct and powerful. when direct influence weakens culture becomes a critical means by which beliefs and values are communicated and maintained. hybrids face the special challenge of building an organizational culture committed to both social mission and effective operations. to keep the mission on course while still making enough money to sustain their operations the leaders of hybrids must make deliberate cultural decisions. first they must identify and communicate organizational values that strike a healthy balance between commitment to both social mission and effective operations. equally important is the selection development and management of employees who are capable of recognizing and pursuing social and economic value. because hybrid organizations not widespread job candidates with extensive experience or training in hybrid working environments typically do not exist. the alternative for hybrid entrepreneurs is to hire either people who have work experience in only one sectorbe it the social or market sectoror a mix of people from both. hiring people who all previously worked in the same sector decreases the likelihood of organizational conflict but it significantly increases the risk of mission drift as employees are likely to slip into the habits and skills they learned in their previous work. on the other hand hiring a differentiated combination of people from disparate sectors can help the organization better balance its social and economic objectives but risks conflict between employees. bolivian microfinance ngo banco solidario bancosol was one of the first to spin off its lending operations into a regulated commercial organization in transitioning from a typical nonprofit organization to a hybrid. as a nonprofit bancosol could not keep up with demand for loans from lowincome entrepreneurs. the newly created hybrid organization would be in a better position to achieve this mission as it would be financially selfsustaining. needing both social work and banking skills bancosol hired a combination of employees from the social and business sectors and planned to train them to work together to achieve common goals. according to francisco otero bancosols first ceo a balanced organizational culture would be created by converting social workers into bankers and bankers into social workers. despite bancosols training efforts however the singlepurpose backgrounds of their employees made it hard for them to adjust to the hybrid model. those with a social work background and those with a financial background ended up resenting each other and fighting constantly so that the organization could hardly operate. another bolivian commercial microfinance organization caja de ahorro y prestamo los andes launched three years after bancosol. it learned from bancosols experience and adopted a radically different hiring and socialization approach. rather than look for job candidates with experience in either social welfare work or finance los andes hired college graduates with essentially no work experience and then trained them to be microfinance loan officers committed both to the social mission of the organization and to effective operations. the idea was that without socialbased or profitbased experience employees would find it easier to adhere to the hybrid mission. although this approach constrained the rate of growth at first it proved to be more sustainable. later bancosol changed its hiring and socialization strategies and adopted an approach closer to los andes. los andes strategy of hiring inexperienced people and socializing them into a hybrid organization work environment may not always be ideal for early growth but many hybrid entrepreneurs we have studied adopted this approach. for example adive a french nonprofit that aims to transform the workforce of french corporations by connecting them with ethnic minority suppliers and entrepreneurs has adopted the same strategy. in the hybrid space it is often easier to work with junior people who have no preconceptions as to what the job entails explains cofounder majid el jarroudi. they can be trained to do the work while embracing the social mission and the need to have effective operations. no matter which hiring approach they choose hybrids face the additional challenge of designing compensation systems tasks and governance policies that reinforce an organizational culture committed to both social mission and effective operations. los andes for example developed an incentive system for loan officers that tied pay to the number and quality of the loans in their portfolios. the quality criteria used were meant to ensure that the pursuit of the social mission would remain los andes priority. the future of hybrids in the aftermath of the economic crisis the global economic system is still regarded as broken. calls for reform have been particularly strong among youth. vast unemployment ballooning debt and entrenched inequality have left a generation of young people frustrated with modern capitalism and motivated to change it. among the voices for reform hybrid entrepreneurs are opening the way for a reformulation of the current economic order combining the principles practices and logics of modern capitalism with more inclusive humanitarian ideals. the essence of this movement is a fundamental convergence and reconfiguration of the social and commercial sectors from completely separate fields to a common space. see the hybridization movement. hybrid organizations that are currently being created serve as a testing ground and we expect that the most successful models will be replicated see yellow arrow in the graphic. yet hybrid entrepreneurs are not the only actors through which the hybridization of the economy is happening. existing forprofit and nonprofit organizations are also part of this trend. using the guideposts of value creation and strategic integration one can map the movement of organizations from the commercial and social sector toward more integrated hybrid forms. whereas corporations social programs were once primarily philanthropy fully differentiated from business core many are moving toward the adoption of more integrated social responsibility programs in which the creation of economic and social value are coupled see orange arrow in the graphic. similarly many nonprofit organizations continue to seek ways to adapt their existing models to generate some revenue to be less dependent on donors see blue arrow in the graphic. we expect this hybridization movement to be slow and gradual as existing organizations are already embedded in models and stakeholder networks that constrain major strategic change. for full hybridization to occur forprofit and nonprofit organizations and hybrid entrepreneurs need resources that align with their goal of creating both social and economic value. hybrid organizations will require innovations in legal status professional training and capital financing so that they do not need to make constant tradeoffs between social and economic goals. at the field level a critical step will be the development of measurement and reporting systems that recognize both social and financial value. the development of this ecosystem will not be the work of any heroic individual or organization rather it will require the creation of new systems by elected officials policymakers social impact investors educators and consumers who lift up a generation of hybrid organizations and their managers. we are not suggesting that all nonprofits should seek profits. some critical solutions to social problems will never be commercially viable and it is important that we continue supporting these through grants and subsidies. nor do we believe that all corporations are likely to become fully integrated hybrids. but for many entrepreneurs integrated hybrid models offer a promising vehicle for the creation of both social and economic value. someday we may look at the advance of hybrid organizations as an early step in a broad reformulation of a current economic order which for all of its successes has left many disenfranchised. hybrid organizations offer a bold sustainable infusion of humanitarian principles into modern capitalism. yet as with all sweeping social changes success will require leadership and persistence. the promise of hybrids is very real but much work lies ahead. notes we selected a random sample of more than or approximately percent of the total applications received by echoing green between and. we then developed a codebook aimed at capturing the demographic profile of the applicants their social enterprise initiative goals their resource and funding strategies and their approach to measuring future performance. all projects were doublecoded by two independent experts who formed a database for our analyses. echoing green fellowship applicants selfidentify as nascent social entrepreneurs using echoing greens broad definition of social entrepreneurs as visionaries who develop bold new solutions to societys toughest problems. applicants organizations tend to be less than two years old. although we do not claim that echoing green fellowship applicants are a representative sample of the broader population of social entrepreneurs they provide a window of unprecedented depth and breadth into the field of social entrepreneurship. also because echoing greens criteria for defining social entrepreneurs are so inclusive the sample provides a great platform for us to look into the rise of hybrids and to examine their characteristics. william foster jeffrey bradach should nonprofits seek profits harvard business review feb. . in the hybrid ideal social value and commercial revenue are nondivisible. this idea has been explored at length in work by jed emerson and others on blended value see www. blendedvalue. org. two independent reports produced this estimate investing for social environmental impact a design for catalyzing an emerging industry monitor institute and impact investments an emerging asset class j. p. morgan. julie battilana silvia dorado building sustainable hybrid organizations the case of commercial microfinance organizations academy of management journal. julie battilana is associate professor of business administration in the organizational behavior unit at harvard business school. her research examines hybrid organizations and the challenges that they face in creating and sustaining an organizational culture committed to both social mission and effective operations. matthew lee is a doctoral candidate in management at harvard business school. his researches focuses on entrepreneurs and organizations that pursue both social and financial performance. previously he was a nonprofit strategy consultant at the bridgespan group in boston and new york city. john walker is director of finance at echoing green where he leads all impact investing initiatives. he serves as an adjunct professor at columbia university school of international and public affairs teaching a course on raising capital for social ventures. cheryl dorsey is president of echoing green a global social venture fund that has awarded million in startup capital to more than next generation social entrepreneurs worldwide since. dorsey received an echoing green fellowship in to help launch the family van a communitybased mobile health unit in boston. tags benefit corporations corporations echoing green hybrid organizations l c law social entrepreneurship talent developmentthe beginners guide to defining buyer personas content marketing digital marketing when you combine the buyer profile with buying insights you will have clear guidance for the decisions you need to make to win their business. adele revella one of the best ways to create content and plan promotional campaigns that truly engage your target audience is by creating a buyer persona. whats a buyer persona you ask in a nutshell a buyer persona is a profile that represents your ideal customer. by creating your own buyer personas youll gain the ability to tailor your marketing efforts and connect with your target audience to meet their needs and solve their problems. after all if you dont know who youre aiming your efforts at how are you going to sell your products or services according to a study from mark w. schaefer three to four buyer personas usually account for over of a companys sales. and in this beginners guide were going to show you how to create your own buyer personas to increase your audience boost brand awareness and drive more sales. carry out market research when creating a buyer persona youre essentially creating a personality that embodies a key segment of your audience and the first step to accomplishing this is to conduct thorough research. to get a gauge on who your customers are what they want and what theyre looking for you to solve you will need to hold surveys and polls via your social media channels interview current customers on onetoone basis and look at your competitors to see how their customers interact with them online this will help you gain a better understanding of who youre speaking to on your channels. personalised campaigns drive times more revenue than broadcast emails so its important to gain as much information as you can from the word go. services like surveymonkey are very useful as they offer suggestions on how to phrase certain questions for your various demographics to ensure that you get the most valuable response to inform your buyer persona campaign. to help you with your efforts heres a video on creating a user poll on facebook. . . another effective way to understand your consumers is through social listening. to find out how read our practical social listening guide. check your site analytics more data has been created in the last two years than in the whole previous history of the human race. thats a lot of data. you can harness this data to strategically focus your marketing efforts and reach out to your customers in a valuable way. inside your site analytics youll be able to see where your site visitors came from the keywords they used to find you and how long they stayed on site for once they arrived. this type of data is essential to creating buyer personas as it shows the search terms that led your audience to your site as well as the devices and platforms they used to get there. this video will help you decide which metrics you need to use to help define your perfect buyer persona. make a buyer persona template now youve checked your analytics gathered your data and gained key insights on your customer base youll be ready to create a buyer persona template. a buyer persona is a little like a top trumps card only more useful. here is an overview of what to include in your buyer persona template persona name its very important to give your persona a name to bring them to life and humanize your marketing efforts job title essential information about their company size sector etc. details about their job role demographics age gender salary or combined household income location are they from an urban suburban or rural region level of education family size goals and challenges main goal secondary goal how you help your persona reach these goals primary challenge secondary challenge how you can assist in resolving these problems values and fears main personal values common objections during sales process marketing message think about how you might describe or communicate your product or services to this particular type of person elevator pitch elaborate on your marketing message and decide on a consistent message based on how youre going to sell yourself to this customer. here is an example of a basic buyer persona. add extra customerspecific information in addition to the core details on your template you should add extra snippets of information relating to your particular customer base not only will this help you target your efforts more specifically but it will also help to breathe extra life into your personas. each buyer persona template can be changed slightly to meet your needs but as a guide this information will assist you with your efforts. level of digital competency personal hobbies preferred news sources favourite blogs most used social media platform direct quotes from existing customer interviews the power of a solid buyer persona more often than not its easy to spot a business that understands the value of a solid buyer persona and knows how to use it to their advantage. jetblue is a shining example. jetblues primary buyer persona is the low budget traveller that seeks a comfortable yet affordable solution to flying. understanding its audience is young and likes to make the majority of their decisions through social media jetblue has crafted its efforts accordingly picking up plenty of traction on twitter in particular. in fact according to a recent report from talkwalker jetblue sees. of its overall social media performance from twitter. by taking on a fun conversational tone using slogans like flying like a boss and focusing on responding to their followers almost instantaneously the company has earned thousand followers to date and is following just one account themselves. even their handle appeals to their key buyer persona. as a result of its refined marketing efforts aided by the companys travel like a boss campaign and driven by its attention marketing personas the company saw a. increase in profit in from the previous year. a clear indication of how buyer personas can help a company improve its brand message appeal to its target audience and reap the rewards of ongoing commercial success. by following the above steps and taking the time to create at least three key buyer personas for your company youll be able to create content and launch campaigns that not only sing to your audience but will help you brand grow and evolve with your customers. the ability to write persuasive copy will help you to engage and convert your users. adeo ressi the cofounder and ceo of the founder institute is a major proponent of perseverence as an entrepreneurial virtue. because so many aspiring founders unfortunately believe that launching a company is easy and is an effective means to gain money and fame adeo along with those of the rest of us at the founder institute have set out to prove that only the most passionate dedicated and resourceful will have what it takes to survive in the startup world. adeo recently wrote an article about the topic of commitment in the forbes article a business is not worth building unless you are ready to go all in. below are some of the key points. ive started businesses and have invested all of my time all of my network and most of my money into each and every one of them. most have done well and others have failed but i wouldnt advise an entrepreneur trying to build an impactful company to pursue any other strategy. heres why. building an impactful company requires of your time i am always surprised by how many founders tell me things like i cant quit my job to build this business until i get some funding. this line of thinking of completely backwards and naive. what investor in their right mind would take the risk of investing in your company if you the founder wont even take on the risk of future earnings to devote your time to it realistically the founders that tell me this are hundreds of steps away from getting investment but even then do they really expect talented people to go out on a limb to join their team fulltime if theyre not willing to do the same unless you have an amazing track record in entrepreneurship this is nonnegotiable. to be clear i am not saying that a business cant begin as a sideproject. on the contrary i believe starting a sideproject before fully committing is the absolute best way to start a company. when it is just a project not a business you arent too attached to it and you can look at things objectively while testing the idea with customers researching the economics and getting feedback from experts. however once you have put in several months at least and have gotten the proper validation you need to devote of your time to build the business if you want to have any chance of success. realistically this means hours per week for several years. . building an impactful company requires of your network if you are trying to build something of impact then you need to quickly get comfortable with asking your friends family and colleagues for favors. these favors include but are not limited to sharing your news giving you feedback on your product providing introductions handing over money buying your product investing in your company and more. as awkward as this may seem there is really no getting around it. as an earlystage entrepreneur you usually have no tangible product to sell so all you can sell is a vision or idea. this is actually very similar to a politician starting a movement and a movement requires an initial audience to get it going. to force this thinking on earlystage entrepreneurs that are not quite ready to go allin in the first week of the founder institute we mandate that our founders create a mailing list of at least friends family members and associates. after sending an initial introductory email where people can silently optout the founders then send this mailing list business updates and requests for feedback on a weekly basis. to push things further we even require our founders to add people to the list every week and when they finish our program they have over subscribed contacts that they know personally or met in the program. is this overkill to be honest when we first implemented this strategy the required subscriber numbers were much lower. however over time we have moved the requirements higher and higher because it has be so effective. at the end of the day this simple mailing list has acted as a forcing function that not only gets our founders comfortable with selling to personal acquaintances but also provides them with a wide net of people from which to get valuable feedback spread news and more. if you are not comfortable asking friends family and colleagues for favors related to your business then i suggest you do something similar. trying to build your company alone is usually a fools errand. . building an impactful company might require all of your own money it does not always require of your money like numbers and above but it might. this is what startup people call skin in the game. joining investing in or partnering with a startup is always a question of risk management and the most remedial question someone can ask to mitigate risk before working with you is are you committed. there is a difference between interest and commitment. when youre interested in something you do it only when its convenient. when youre committed to something you accept no excuses only results. kenneth h. blanchard author of the one minute manager most of the successful entrepreneurs you read about today have invested most of their money into their businesses at the early stage while also taking either a very low or the legal minimum salary for the first several years. i have done the same with all nine of my businesses. obviously not everyone has the luxury to do this but at the very least they should expect to front the initial costs of the business incorporation legal basic technology materials and the like while also offering much higher salaries to their first key hires than their own. after all what signifies more commitment from the founder than cold hard cash okay so lets say you have read my three points above but are still wavering and not quite ready to go allin with your time network or money. what should you do at the very least i recommend that you take a step back and ask yourself two key questions am i fully committed to this idea if you are ready to go allin but do not believe you have validated your idea you can usually find the answer by isolating your area of concern getting feedback on it through a wellconstructed mvp test with a few hundred more potential customers and reviewing the results with someone that successfully built a business targeting the same customer. if you are not sold after that then its time to significantly alter pivot your idea or start over altogether. keep in mind that this is not a bad thing it is better you learn this sooner rather than later. am i ready for the rigors of starting a business if you believe you have validated your idea but are still not ready to go allin then work backwards and create a plan that will get you to that point. maybe you have a child on the way or other family obligations on the horizon maybe you need to save up money and start another sidehustle in the interim or maybe you need to take time creating relationships that will be crucial for your business to succeed whatever the situation just create an actionable plan to get you there as quickly as possible. i promise you that the longer you wait the more your chances of getting started and succeeding diminish. engineering as marketingtraction channel developing definition jason mares of traction explains we call this traction channel engineering as marketing using engineering time to create useful tools like calculators widgets and educational microsites to get your company in front of potential customers. these tools then generate leads and expand your customer base. hubspot a marketing automation software company has reached tens of millions in revenue in a few short years. one key to their success is a free marketing review tool they created called marketing grader. in the article your marketing job is about to become an engineering job. get use to it the focus on how marketing is changing. marketing is largely becoming about algorithms instead of catchy jingles. how its become about optimization instead of grand openings or launch dates. data instead of instinct. great examples of companies using engineering as marketing from traction book. hubspot using marketing graderfree marketing review tool to gather new customers found the key was to automate process that they found were effective. dharmesh of hubspot says at hubspot we really believe in marketing channels that have high leverage i. e. write it or build it once and get value forever. as such we take a very geeky and analytical approach to marketing. we think of each piece of content blog article app video whatever as a marketing asset. this asset creates a return often indefinitely. we contrast that to buying an ad which does not scale as well. when you advertise the money youre spending is what drives how much attention you get. want more clicks spend more money. contrast this to inbound marketing whereby the cost of producing a piece of content is relatively constant. but if it generates x more leads in a month your marginal cost for those extra leads is almost zero. further with advertising outbound marketing the traffic you get generally stops when you stop paying. with inbound marketing even after you stop producing new content the old content can still drive ongoing visitors and leads. moz the leader in seo software uses two free seo tools followerwonk and open site explorer have driven tens of thousands of leads for them. followerwonk allows users to analyze their twitter followers and get tips on growing their audience. open site explorer allows users to see where sites are getting links which is valuable competitive intelligence for any seo campaign. a key feature of these tools is their ease of use prospects simply go to the site and enter a domain name or twitter handle. once someone uses the tools companies can begin to engage these potential customers through other traction channels like sales and email marketing. wp engine a wordpress hosting provider is another prime example of a company using this channel successfully. the hosting market is saturated with hundreds of hosting companies yet wp engine has cornered the market on highend wordpress hosting. this is due to their free tool that checks how fast your wordpress site loads. the wp engine speed testing tool asks for only an email address in exchange for a detailed report about your sites speed. it also gives you the option to opt in for a free minicourse about improving the speed of your blog. once they have a users email they send them tips about improving their site speed and end with a sales pitch as described in the email marketing chapter. value of engineering as marketing the case for spending engineering resources on marketing becomes much stronger when you think about the resulting tools as assets. these tools have the potential to become a continual source of leads that make up the majority of your traction. tactics for engineering as marketing from traction by weinberg and mares annual promotions one way to boost your efforts in this traction channel is to take advantage of cyclical behavior. example code year addressed that issue of the cyclical behavior of people annually wanting to learn more about coding. so they asked users to enter their email address to receive a free lesson about programming each week during. over individuals signed up on codeyear. com nearly doubling codecademys userbase at the time. microsites one tactic to really maximize impact is to put your tools on their own website. this simple technique does two things. first it makes them much easier to share. second you can do well with seo by picking a name that people search often so your tool is more naturally discoverable example weinberg of duckduckg built a microsite donttrack. us which showed how google tracks your searches and why that can harm you. the site raised awareness about these practices and spread virally. at the same time readers learned that his main site duckduckgo. com does not track users or store their personal information. this provided great marketing exposure. widgets how many times have you seen facebook twitter and other sharing buttons on a site for each of those widgets e. g. facebook stumbleupon google and twitter buttons a company used engineering resources to create a marketing tool that was embeddable on sites. these widgets drive engagement traffic and traction for these social platforms and the sites that use these tools. example chris fralic former head of business development at delicious and half. com tells us that creating a delicious bookmark widget more than tripled the adoption of their social bookmarking product. conclusion zack linford the founder of conversion voodoo tells about how building tools can help with pr and seo while also nailing down the core value proposition for your product. building noteworthy tools that your target audience finds useful is a solid way to gain traction that also pays dividends down the road by helping build your seo. a simple roadmap to executing this technical strategy includes providing something of true value for free with no strings attached. making that offering extremely relevant to your core business. demonstrating that value as quickly as possible. the core tenets of jobstobedone theory jobstobedone outcomedriven innovation sign in get started history frameworks templates podcasts case studies leadership fallacies the core tenets of jobstobedone theory with decades of scrutiny in both academic and practitioner settings these core tenets of jobs theory have emerged as the building blocks of predictable growth. tony ulwick follow nov min read science is about process observing making inferences about those observations and then performing tests to see if the inferences are indeed true. toward that end science employs a particular vocabulary for describing how ideas are proposed tested and supported or disproven. and thats where we see the difference between a hypothesis and a theory. in scientific reasoning a hypothesis is constructed before any applicable research has been done. a theory on the other hand is supported by evidence its a set of principles or tenets formed as an attempt to explain things that have already been substantiated by data. the hypothesis when ibm announced the pcjr in it was immediately declared a flop in the press and as it turned out they were right. as a humbled engineer on the ibm product team i wondered how they were able to quickly and accurately predict the product would fail. i wondered what metrics they used to judge the value of ibms new home computer and how they knew they were the right metrics. months after contemplating the pcjr debacle i constructed this hypothesis it seemed to me that if a product team could know what metrics its customers were going to use to judge its new offering well in advance of product development it could design the product to address those metrics and predictably deliver a winning solution. proving this hypothesis raised a number of challenging questions what metrics should be captured and from whom how do we make sure the metrics remain valid stable throughout a multiyear development cycle do we need to prioritize the metrics will all customers agree on the priority of the metrics and if not how will that be reconciled solving these challenges led to the creation of outcomedriven innovation odi a strategy and innovation process that was first used outside of ibm in to help cordis corporation introduce a new line of angioplasty balloons. this led to a dramatic increase in market share from about to over and was the first of many successes. in i introduced odi to clayton christensen see here as a possible solution to the innovators dilemma. he went on to popularize the underlying odi theory in his best seller the innovators solution labeling it jobstobedone theory. since that time we have independently worked to advance the theory clay through the lens of a wellrespected harvard business school professor and i through the lens of a practitioner. jobstobedone theory a theory is a set of tenets that has been formed as an attempt to explain things that have already been substantiated by data. jobstobedone theory is comprised of a group of principles or tenets that explain how to make marketing more effective and innovation more predictable by focusing on the customers jobtobedone. christensen and i based on what we have published agree on of the tenets below that form the foundation for jobstobedone theory. our opinions differ slightly on tenet as i will explain and it is unknown to me whether or not christensen would support tenets and as they have not appeared in his writings. the core principles and tenets behind jobstobedone theory detail a sound and proven theory because they are based on evidence verification and repeated testing by the strategyn team over a year period. using odi the theory was applied over times in applications such as i product software service and operational innovation ii product improvement and new product creation iii businesstobusiness and businesstoconsumer applications and iv in over industry verticals. consequently when companies apply jobs theory to better inform their strategy marketing innovation development and ma initiatives they can confidently use these jobstobedone theory tenets as the building blocks for predictable growth people buy products and services to get a job done. jobs are functional with emotional and social components. a jobtobedone is stable over time. a jobtobedone is solution agnostic. success comes from making the job rather than the product or the customer the unit of analysis. a deep understanding of the customers job makes marketing more effective and innovation far more predictable. people want products and services that will help them get a job done better and or more cheaply people seek out products and services that enable them to get the entire job done on a single platform innovation becomes predictable when needs are defined as the metrics customers use to measure success when getting the job done the implications of each of these tenets on a companys efforts to create and market breakthrough products and services are farreaching. each of these tenets brings new insights into a companys business practices. also see what is jobstobedone. tenet people buy products and services to get a job done people have underlying problems they are trying to resolve. they have goals they are trying to achieve and tasks and activities they are trying to complete. they may be faced with situations they are trying to avoid. in each of these cases people often turn to products and services to help them get a job done. a job is not a description of what the customer is doing the solution they are using or the steps they are taking to get a job done. rather the job statement embodies what the customer is ultimately trying to accomplish. the way we the team at strategyn and i put this tenet of the theory into practice is to define the customer and the job as a market a group of people and the functional job they are trying to get done. for example parents a group of people who are trying to pass on life lessons to children the functional jobtobedone constitute a market. surgeons a group of people who are trying to repair a torn rotator cuff the functional jobtobedone constitute a market. when a company defines a market in this manner it clarifies its target customer and the job it is going to help the customer accomplish with a product or service offering it creates. tenet jobs are functional with emotional and social components as a customer uses a product to get a functional job done they often want to feel a certain way and be perceived in a certain light by their peers and or friends and others. the way they want to feel and be perceived constitutes their emotional and social jobstobedone. for example when parents are trying to pass on life lessons to children the functional jobtobedone they may also want to feel like they are contributing to the advancement of society and or want to be perceived as good parents by their peers. these are the emotional and social components they attach to the functional job respectively. understanding the emotional and social components of the functional job brings companies rich insights that can lead to the creation of a value proposition that resonates with customers at both a functional and emotional level. the way we put this tenet into practice is to first work with customers to define the market and then work with them to define the emotional and social jobs associated with the functional jobtobedone. when conducting qualitative research with a crosssection of job executors it is common for people to express to emotional and social jobs. the job statements can be captured quantified and used to inform a variety of marketing and development decisions. tenet a jobtobedone is stable over time a functional jobtobedone is often a job that customers have been trying to accomplish for years decades and in some cases even centuries. parents for example have been trying to pass on life lessons to children since the beginning of humanity. a functional job is stable over time. what changes over time are the products and services that companies offer to help get the job done better. because the jobtobedone is stable over time it is an attractive focal point around which to create customer value. it provides a stable target for market insights strategy formulation innovation rd and ma investment and growth. it also offers insights that can help prevent disruption. in practice we leverage this tenet by recognizing that a companys short and longterm strategy should never change the strategy should always be to help customers get the entire job done better and more cheaply on a single product platform. this is the longterm strategy that amazon has pursued since its inception. a stable target and a stable vision bring focus and purpose to an organization. tenet a jobtobedone is solution agnostic the core functional job is solution agnostic independent of any solutions or technologies. this tenet is vital to the theorys claims of success for breakthrough innovation. innovation isnt about a faster horse rather it is about getting a job done better. a horse is a solution to get a job done. the job transporting yourself from point a to point b must be defined independent of the solution the horse so altogether new breakthrough solutions can be conceptualized e. g. the automobile. customers dont know what solutions will get a job done best. so why ask them customers couldnt envision the automobile or the microwave or the smartphone. they are not experts at product definition and design they are not materials experts and scientists so asking them what solutions they want is a failed approach to innovation. however customers do know what job they are trying to get done independent of the solution they are using or what alternative solutions are possible. defining the jobtobedone independent of solutions opens the door to breakthrough thinking. in addition when a job is defined in this manner it enables a company to view its competition through a new lens. instead of competition including only products of a similar nature competition can and should be viewed as any product or homegrown solution that is being or can be used to get the job done. viewing competition through this lens can help a company avoid disruption through technological advancement. tenet success comes from making the job the unit of analysis making the jobtobedone the unit of analysis means it is the job not the product the customer the circumstance or customer demographics that is studied dissected and understood at a granular level of detail. note christensens view on this tenet differs from ours. in addition to saying the job is the unit of analysis christensen sometimes says the circumstance is the unit of analysis but he defines the circumstance to be inclusive of the functional emotional and social jobs the customer is trying to get done. when we analyze the jobtobedone we begin by creating a job map. a job map is different than a process map or a customer journey map in that it describes step by step just what the customer is trying to get done a needs perspective not what the customer is doing a solution perspective. to understand the job at a granular level we then define customer needs as the metrics customers use to measure success when getting each step in the job done. we call these statements the customers desired outcomes. the desired outcome statement which we created over years ago is a specially constructed need statement that has a unique set of characteristics desired outcomes are devoid of solutions stable over time measureable controllable structured for reliable prioritization in a quantitative customer survey and tied to the underlying job the customer is trying to get done see inventing the perfect customer need statement and giving customers a fair hearing. desired outcome statements describe customer metrics for getting the job done faster more predictably without variation and with high throughput output. they form the foundation for the outcomedriven innovation process and have many downstream applications. trained odi practitioners capture desired outcome statements in qualitative customer interviews and construct them without the customers help. with the customers desired outcome statements inhand companies are able to identify where and why customers are struggling to get the job done brainstorm ideas for new offerings and determine in advance of development which ideas will help customers get the job done best. tenet a deep understanding of the customers job makes marketing more effective and innovation far more predictable in clayton christensens latest book competing against luck he says innovation becomes much more predictable and far more profitable when it begins with a deep understanding of the job the customer is trying to get done. heres why a deep understanding of the customers desired outcomes for a given job enables companies to know often for the first time all the customers needs. companies are able to transition from a place where a crossfunctional team cant agree on what a need is to a place where they not only agree on what a need is but they also agree on what all the customers needs are the desired outcomes tied to the jobtobedone. this is truly transformational as most companies and most voc practitioners dont even agree on what a need is learn more here and end up using customer inputs that derail the innovation process. the fundamentals of marketing and innovation are straight forward if a team can agree on what a need is what the customers needs are and which are unmet they are able to better position and sell more of the companys existing products improve existing products and services create new products and services. jobstobedone theory makes this possible. in practice we leverage this tenet by conducting quantitative research that is specifically designed to reveal under and overserved customer desired outcomes and segments of customers with different unmet outcomes. this unique research which we have perfected over decades overcomes the issues associated with traditional market research methods see reinventing market research to put jobstobedone theory into practice. tenet people want products and services that will help them get a job done better and or more cheaply we have learned that people arent loyal to companies or brands. they are loyal to getting a job done better faster more predictably and with higher output throughput and or more cheaply. they replace existing products and services with those that help them achieve these goals. we have learned that some people are willing to pay more to get a job done better while others are willing to pay less to get a job done worse. knowing what types of customers exist in your market and in what proportions forms the foundation for a new way to think about growth strategy. with a focus on this tenet we have created the jobstobedone growth strategy matrix a powerful framework that helps to explain the dynamics of disruptive innovation and other growth strategies. a webinar detailing this tenet and the matrix can be found here the jobstobedone growth strategy matrix webinar tenet people seek out products and services that enable them to get the entire job done on a single platform we have discovered that many products and services available in the market only get part of a job done and that customers are left to cobble together solutions in order to get the entire job done. customers dont want to cobble together the solution. they want it presented to them. this finding has important implications. first your product strategy shouldnt be everchanging. in fact it should never change. your goal should always be to help your customers get their entire job done on a single platform. nespresso is a great example. the company worked for years with a single strategy in mind to enable customers get the job of preparing a hot beverage for consumption done on a single platform. more importantly products and services naturally but slowly evolve to help customers get the entire job done on a single platform. a company can accelerate this process once it knows what steps comprise the job. in this sense a job map can be used as a blueprint that informs a company what product improvements to make and what ma and rd investments to make to create the ultimate solution years before its competition does. tenet innovation becomes predictable when needs are defined as the metrics customers use to measure success when getting the job done in order to determine if a new product idea concept will be able to get a job done better and or more cheaply it must be possible to evaluate competing ideas against a stable set of metrics. the metrics we use to conduct this evaluation are the customers desired outcomes. since the customers jobtobedone is stable over time the customers needs when defined as desired outcome statements are also stable over time. see the medium article define customer needs as constants. with a stable set of needs in hand a company is able to quantify which needs are underserved and overserved. discover segments of customers with different unmet needs. use the metrics as a baseline against which they can test product ideas and concepts before they are developed. knowing which product or service concept will get the job done best early in the product planning stages prior to development is the key to predictable and profitable innovation. finding the right investors is like dating you need to kiss many frogs before you find a prince. today im going to share seven ways fundraising founders can kiss fewer frogs and find more princes habit pitch to the right investors not all investors are created equal. some investors only invest in seed investments. some investors only focus on series a. before approaching any investors do your homework and make sure you go after the right target audience. you can segment them with these characteristics investment stages seed series a b c etc. check size e. g. how many deals has he or she done in past months you will find out how active this investor is industry focus if any geography most silicon valley investors would not invest outside of the bay area it is certainly quite rare to turn someone who isnt already engaged in your industry or geography into someone who suddenly cares about what youve created. habit pitch with purpose my colleague andrea barrica introduced me to this quote by maya angelou ive learned that people will forget what you said people will forget what you did but people will never forget how you made them feel. what do you want your potential investors walk away with after your pitch keep that in mind and you very likely will change the story you tell and the way you tell it. habit curate your story its harder to tell a short than a long story. its easy to tell your investors everything thats happened in your life since you were but whittling that down to what they really need to know is much harder and much more compelling. dont be lazy or selfindulgent. put in the extra effort and curate only relevant and story that make you uniquely over qualify for your startup. habit pitch like a professional during your pitch you need to convey two things why you are the most qualified person and why investors should give you money now. be sure to cover the following if you are ready but always start with traction demo if you have it. here are things to cover traction traction traction revenue user download user engagement major signed partnerships product demo if you have it. you should have it. market size target market pain point product team team investors advisors technology business model monetization model competition market trends habit understand the big picture most founders i met are in love with their product. unfortunately as an investor i dont just want a person who is in love with himself or herself or their product. i want a founder who truly understands how to create a business. you should be the one who can tell me everything about your competitors market legal environment or policy changes. habit hour follow up after your first call or in person meeting be sure to follow up within hours and make sure to cover the following in your follow up email thank them your deck current traction team action items your ask ask for follow up meetings or phone calls habit show passion honesty building a startup is really really hard work. as an investor i want to find someone who wont back down when things get even harder and is willing to do whatever it takes to make things happen. a huge part of working hard and knowing where to work harder is knowing what isnt working yet. show your true self and be honest. its ok to say i dont know. you dont need to have all the answers but you do need to have the strength of character and work ethic to figure it out. the behavioural roadmap for startups the challenge now that youre clear on your vision roadmap the next step is to figure out what to actually build. a roadmaps job is to tell you where youre going and how to get there. with the vision roadmap we have a clearer idea of where were going but thats too highlevel to let us know what to work on tomorrow. normally roadmaps look something like the below that is a bunch of features listed down the left with delivery timelines ganttcharted out. these types of roadmaps say what a company is doing and what a user is getting but thats where the problems begin its out of date as soon as you build it it frustrates engineering and others as too rigid it doesnt focus on what the customer wants which is what matters i believe a roadmap can be built around what the customer wants and needs. lets go back to our example of hogwash which started in the vision roadmap piece. one of the initial propositions we planned to achieve was as follows hogwash is a convenient way to get the occasional lastminute sparkle on my car launch proposition for the busy professional now our product funnel for a typical ecommerce solution like hogwash might look something like this. these are all key steps we observer onsite can measure and reflect our kpis directly. unfortunately this misses out on a lot of things that the customer is going through many of which you can use. heres an example of a full customer journey for the same situation. each step is a behaviour that the customer undertakes in their journey. it starts well before they come to the site and it ends only after they have demonstrated the behaviour that fulfills the companys goals. in this case repeatpurchase. youll see that all the key funnel steps are in there but there are also steps in there before after and between them. the better insight you have into your customer journey the quicker you can make key decisions like product changes or pivots and the more advantage you have over your competitors. have a look at the step between schedule appointment and pay a place where theres a particularly steep funnel drop. the step talk to partner is just as important if not moreso to the customer and introduces an additional persona into the equation. understanding this creates new opportunities in product. you might address it directly enter your partners email here and well send them a summary to which you could solicit the partners feedback eg scale of. great new data and insight opportunity from simply recognising that this step exists hogwash isnt real of course but the example is real from another startup behaviours are actions performed for reasons with expected rewards. i wont go deeper on these in this post but the more clearly you identify and validate these with your customers the greater opportunity you have to compare influence and supplant them with the behaviours you want. the work of nir eyal nathalie nahai and dan ariely might be really helpful to look at. now that youve got your customer behaviours understood pick the two you want to focus on for the next days. this is your behavioural roadmap. short sweet and customerfocused. all those other ideas can be saved for posterity in the opportunity cloud you may get around to them later. simple right i know its not pretty like the ones at the top but hopefully youll find its a lot more relevant. features dont drive kpis behaviours do. now comes the hardest part coming up with great ideas theres no science to creating delight but make sure you have your best people in the room. by focusing on behaviours action motivation reward you have a better chance of coming up with a great idea than if youre just focusing on features. ideos work in the how might we practice is worth looking at. the following threestep process great article about pandora here takes you from which behaviour you want to what minimum viable product tests you want to undertake. by focusing in on the entire customer journey and understanding the underlying motivations and rewards for the user youve now developed some serious competitive advantage. your team is far more empowered to develop great ideas with you and there is a much stronger sense of purpose and direction to all those late nights youll be spending delivering your worldchanging idea. tags behaviour product roadmapstartup exits should be positive and planned early. highway exit uptrain via flickr if you startup is your dream why would you want to think about an exit its going to be so successful and so much fun that you dont need to think about what comes after. wrong. there are two very real and practical reasons why you need to plan an exit outside investors want to collect their return. remember that equity investments are not like loans with interest. the investor sees no return until he cashes out or the company is sold. even three years is a long time to wait for any pay check. entrepreneurs love the art of the start. assuming your startup takes off you will probably find that the fun is gone by the time you reach employees or a few million in revenue. the job changes from creating a work of art to operating a cookie cutter. in three to five years you will be anxious to start a new entity with new ideas and spinoffs that have built up in your mind and certainty that you can avoid all those potholes you hit the first time around. if your startup was less than a success youll definitely want to erase it from memory. so here are the most common exit strategies and considerations these days for planning purposes merger acquisition ma. this normally means merging with a similar company or being bought by a larger company. this is a winwin situation when bordering companies have complementary skills and can save resources by combining. for bigger companies its a more efficient and quicker way to grow their revenue than creating new products organically. initial public offering ipo. this used to be the preferred mode and the quick way to riches. but since the internet bubble burst in the year the ipo rate has declined every year until and is now at about. i dont recommend this approach to startups these days. shareholders are demanding and liability concerns are high. sell to a friendly individual. this is not an ma since it is not combining two entities into one. yet its a great way to cash out so you can pay investors pay yourself take some time off and get ready to have some fun all over again. the ideal buyer is someone who has more skills and interest on the operational side of the business and can scale it. make it your cash cow. if you are in a stable secure marketplace with a business that has a steady revenue stream pay off investors find someone you trust to run it for you while you use the remaining cash to develop your next great idea. you retain ownership and enjoy the annuity. but cash cows seem to need constant feeding to stay healthy. liquidation and close. even lifetime entrepreneurs can decide that enough is enough. one oftenoverlooked exit strategy is simply to shutdown close the business doors and liquidate. there may be a natural catastrophe like or the market you counted on could implode. make rules up front so you dont end up going down with the ship. to some an exit strategy sounds negative. actually the best reason for an exit strategy is to plan how to optimize a good situation rather than get out of a bad one. this allows you to run your startup and focus efforts on things that make it more appealing and compelling to the short list of acquirers or buyers you target. the type of business you choose should depend on your goals and the way you grow it should be aligned with your exit strategy. dont wait till you are in trouble to think about an exit rather think of it as a succession plan or a successful transition. when asana was a young company of just a few people we experienced a phenomenon thats common with earlystage startups. just about every day someone would come to work with a new idea. a good idea no less most of the time we said lets do it. until we got distracted by the next new idea. on the one hand its hard to make meaningful progress when youre constantly open to changing strategy. on the other hand rejecting all new ideas is the opposite of fostering the kind of organization that can learn adapt and react quickly. thats why setting aside time to make meaningful structured work plansand then carrying out those plansis so important. at asana we consider the planning process to be just as critical as the execution process. you wouldnt run a race without a route. similarly its difficult to run an organization without mapping out clear goals. sketching out a roadmap there are many ways to do planning. after years of prototyping our own systems weve landed on a model that works well for us and that may work well for you too. we structure our calendar into month periods we call episodes. during each episode we stick to our plans. as new ideas come up we write them down and table them for later. in between each episode we hold a weeklong event called roadmap week. roadmap week is when we reflect integrate new ideas and plan just how well carry them out. the whole company comes together for both highlevel reflection on how the last episode went and highlevel planning on how the next episode should go. its a time to dream big and review all those ideas we wrote down over the past few months. large strategic pivots are now on the table. the week is driven forward by committees that facilitate a series of meetings focusing on everything from deployment and scalability to metrics and design. we take an honest look back on our successes and failures discuss our goals and deliverables map out the next episodes key milestones and envision new ways to experiment. because we consolidate many meetings into that week we have fewer meetings throughout the rest of the year. sometimes people say i dont have time to do these kinds of planning exercises. weve found that we dont have time not to do these exercises. without a clear plan you might find yourself running a race without a routeperhaps quickly but in the wrong direction. ultimately organizations exist to accomplish goals. succeeding at those goals comes down to being clear about exactly what youre trying to accomplish clarity of purpose and how youre going to get there clarity of plan. here are some of the major ways weve benefited from implementing roadmap weeks. learn from your failures. we look carefully at our ideas and goals set forth during our previous roadmap week and inevitably many of them wont have come to fruition. thats okay you can often learn more from failures than successes. deconstructing where and why something went wrong gives you the chance to both identify warning signs and avoid similar courses of action in the future. but also from your successes. of course its just as important to recognize and celebrate our achievements so we can replicate them elsewhere. looking at how ideas were implemented successfully means we can use similar approaches that will lead to more successes. lean into big bold ideas. roadmap week is our chance to look at all of the big ideas that came up during an episode and evaluate them objectively. in the course of an episode i personally will generate five new big directions we could take the product they all look great when theyre shiny and new but by the time roadmap week rolls around only one of them will seem actually worth pursuing. once we identify the ideas that have staying power we sketch out a realistic work plan and put individual next steps in asana. collaborate with teams that otherwise wouldnt work together. roadmap week is an opportunity to bring together individuals from teams that dont normally interact daytoday. its a chance to hear from people from different parts of the company who might have ideas about areas they dont normally work on. for example often a product team will present an idea for a feature and someone from our customer success team will be able to correct their assumptions about what customers actually want from the feature. anticipate problems. in mapping out how to execute a goal its worth brainstorming all the potential roadblocks that could impede you. these obstacles can often be gleaned from past failures. other times theyre determined by vividly imagining just how certain scenarios will play out. premorteming is surprisingly effective pretend its four months from now and the project has failed what went wrong capitalize on collective energy. roadmap week is not only a reset its a time for teammates to come together celebrate all youve accomplished and enjoy the freedom of openended creative exploration. ideas produce inspiration and inspiration produces dopamine. its a pleasure to harness the collective passion and excitement that comes out of dreaming big together. if youre interested in building a framework to create your own roadmap week read our guide to forming successful committees that host productive planning meetings. diverse work styles and ways to manage them by kim christfortoctober tweet share share are you satisfied with the performance of your team are they producing the right results individually and collectively every day i interact with senior executives struggling to tackle a variety of business challenges dissatisfied with their own answers to these fundamental questions. ive noticed that as diverse as their challenges are they often share a common problem ineffective team dynamics leading to suboptimal engagement productivity and performance. and typically at the heart of this problem lies a lack of understanding about diverse working styles. our team at deloitte has spent years researching work styles to shed light on how individuals prefer to make decisions solve problems work with others and even respond to stress. as a result we developed the business chemistry system to help people identify with and recognize four core patterns of behaviors pioneers who seek possibilities and spark energy and imagination drivers who like a challenge and generate momentum guardians who crave stability and bring order and rigor and integrators who desire connection and bring teams together. when managers and coworkers identify their own business chemistry styles and observe the styles of others it can help flag potential conflicts between individuals and within teams and may inform strategies to more effectively adapt and manage these styles day to day. here are just three ways to help manage diverse work styles in the office based on our findings. embrace the power in productive friction conflicting work styles are common in the workplace. while you may prefer a certain way of solving problems or coping with pressures at work your coworker or manager is likely to have a different approach. thats no surprise whatever your primary style is the math says that the majority of the population will likely have one thats different from yours. this can be most obvious and painful when a person sits at the other end of the behavioral spectrum from where you are indeed of people say their opposites are the most challenging group to work with. dont be discouraged by the friction. opposite styles can complement each other and result in a more balanced higher performing team. putting the time and effort into learning how to work with teammates with opposing work styles and preferences can create a resilient partnership in the long run. . make room for all voices its common for teams to be dominated by a particular work style which limits the value of having diverse perspectives. leadership roles are often occupied by styles that are more assertive and vocal the pioneers and drivers who make up of todays csuite according to our research. unfortunately once ideas and decisions start cascading in one direction it can be difficult to disrupt momentum and open the process to others. encouraging those least likely to speak up to assert themselves and take leadership early on can give them a chance to influence the direction of the conversation before the avalanche carries everyone away. the more introverted types on a team may be less quick to speak up and can inadvertently be left out unless a conscious effort is made to seek out their input. we often find that those who are the quietest can also be the most critical creative thinkers. building an environment that fosters a collaborative dynamic can go a long way in encouraging everyone to participate. . cultivate a new view of diversity there is commonly a lot of discussion about the power of diversity in business today but often times those discussions focus on gender age and other demographic designations. we suggest that working styles can provide an insightful additional lens to this discussion. teams can benefit from a balance of perspectives and those without may be exposed to blind spots and limitations as a result. these tips have been effective in my own working relationships. for example dr. suzanne vickberg who leads research on my team is a selfproclaimed guardian. she likes organization and consistency and feels stressed when she needs to come up with an answer on the spot. i on the other hand love spontaneity and new challenges but feel deflated by detailed processes. weve learned how to work together effectively and play to one anothers strengths suzanne knows that i am focusing on the big picture and i trust that suzanne has considered every detail. but beyond just valuing the complementary nature of our strengths together we have also put in place structures to help ensure suzanne can fully contribute. our team is fastpaced and dynamic. taking into account suzannes work preferences i carved out a role for her that is buffered from that chaos and she has responded with amazing productivity. in our meetings we create and stick to clear agendas with prereads that allow her to come ready to share her perspectives versus feeling forced to make things up on the fly but with room for me to explore a few tangents. this combination of strategies has resulted in an environment that suits each of us individually while letting us work together to create common success. sprint monday. on monday youll kick off your sprint by sharing knowledge understanding the problem and choosing a target for the weeks efforts. with only five days it might seem crazy to spend an entire day talking and writing on whiteboards. but if you dont first slow down share what you know and prioritize you could end up wasting time and effort on the wrong part of the problem. mondays structured discussions create a path for the sprint week. in the morning youll start at the end and agree to a longterm goal. next youll make a map of the challenge. in the afternoon youll ask the experts at your company to share what they know. finally youll pick a target an ambitious but manageable piece of the problem that you can solve in one week. of course the sprint book is the most complete guide to mondays exercises and the rest of the week. but weve included the complete monday checklist and some tips for the facilitator below. weve also got a video where jake and i explain what happens on monday and show some examples. if you have questions check out the live chat qa we hosted during sprint week. if you dont find answers feel free to tweet us at. and finally here is that checklist we promised checklist for monday note schedules are approximate. dont worry if you run behind. remember to take breaks every sixty to ninety minutes or around a. m. and p. m. each day. a. m. write this checklist on a whiteboard. when youre done check off this first item. see how easy that was keep checking off items throughout the day. introductions. if some people dont know one another do a round of introductions. point out the facilitator and the decider and describe their roles. explain the sprint. introduce the fiveday sprint process you can use the slide deck on thesprintbook. com. run through this checklist and briefly describe each activity. ish set a longterm goal. get optimistic. ask why are we doing this project where do we want to be in six months a year or even five years from now write the longterm goal on a whiteboard. read more on page in sprint. list sprint questions. get pessimistic. ask how could we fail turn these fears into questions you could answer this week. list them on a whiteboard. p. ish make a map. list customers and key players on the left. draw the ending with your completed goal on the right. finally make a flowchart in between showing how customers interact with your product. keep it simple five to fifteen steps. p. p. m. lunch break. eat together if you can its fun. remind your team to choose a light lunch to maintain energy in the afternoon. there are snacks if you get hungry later. p. m. ask the experts. interview experts on your sprint team and guests from the outside. aim for fifteen to thirty minutes each. ask about the vision customer research how things work and previous efforts. pretend youre a reporter. update longterm goal questions and map as you go. p. explain how might we notes. distribute whiteboard markers and sticky notes. reframe problems as opportunities. start with the letters hmw on the top left corner. write one idea per sticky note. make a stack as you go. p. ish organize how might we notes. stick all the how might we notes onto a wall in any order. move similar ideas next to one another. label themes as they emerge. dont perfect it. stop after about ten minutes. p. vote on how might we notes. each person has two votes can vote on his or her own notes or even the same note twice. move winners onto your map. p. ish pick a target. circle your most important customer and one target moment on the map. the team can weigh in but the decider makes the call. p. key ideas start at the end. start by imagining your end result and risks along the way. then work backward to figure out the steps youll need to get there. p. nobody knows everything. not even the decider. all the knowledge on your sprint team is locked away in each persons brain. to solve your big problem youll need to unlock that knowledge and build a shared understanding. p. reframe problems as opportunities. listen carefully for problems and use how might we phrasing to turn them into opportunities. p. facilitator tips ask for permission. ask the group for permission to facilitate. explain that youll try to keep things moving which will make the sprint more efficient for everyone. p. abc always be capturing. synthesize the teams discussion into notes on the whiteboard. improvise when needed. keep asking how should i capture that p. ask obvious questions. pretend to be naive. ask why a lot. p. take care of the humans. keep your team energized. take breaks every sixty to ninety minutes. remind people to snack and to eat a light lunch. p. decide and move on. slow decisions sap energy and threaten the sprint timeline. if the group sinks into a long debate ask the decider to make a call. p. sprint seriesthe role of the agency business development executive has been called the most dangerous job in an agency due to the short lifespan stress and confusion surrounding the responsibilities of the role. yet it is one of the most important positions in the agency. the success of the business development person directly influences future growth and stability. free download sales training onboarding template they get hired for having strong professional qualities leadership skills organizational mindset creative thinking that would make them competent candidates for managing the intense pressure. but having those skills is not all the role entails. too often agency leaders develop unrealistic expectations for the person taking on the duties who may not have the qualities a good executive needs. agency leaders want someone with an enviable rolodex who can bring in client accounts without much effort in addition to being able to write proposals market the agency prospect manage accounts when necessary and command the respect of the team. this unrealistic view of what the agency wants in a person and the type of people actually looking to work in a sales role for the agency sets up the relationship for failure. according to the marketing agency growth report of agencies struggle to find employees who are the right fit for the position and of agencies feel one of their biggest struggles is retaining employees. to prevent high turnover in the position and to better understand what really makes a successful business development professional consider screening business developer professionals for these key business development skills business development skills understands peoples buying patterns and trends believes in inbound marketing asks great questions and listens intently sets goals and develops action plans is the right type of salesperson for the role possesses a high curiosity quotient ability to build a brand sets realistic expectations with clients indepth knowledge of the agency business. understands peoples buying patterns and trends as a marketer you know the famous stat buyers complete up to of decisionmaking process before they ever even contact a vendor. with the increasing amount of information available online either from a brand its competitors or its previous customers buyers are more educated than ever before. but does your salesperson know and understand the implications of this once upon a time the seller had control of the information. now they need to serve as an advisor who can personalize the solution to the specific buyer and her challenges. business development professionals need to be able to be wellversed in strategies that will help them build trust with a buyer and move the person through the sales cycle through education and qualification. david c. baker of recourses emphasizes that you need to hire someone who understands this consultative selling approach. seldom do sales people with a successful background in transactional selling make the transition to consultative selling he said. the process and selling points and presence are completely different. for example a transactional seller will drive the process to close a sale even if profitability is sacrificed in order to accomplish that. a consultative seller is more patient and might close three to five new substantial clients every year. their ego doesnt require constant stroking. . believes in inbound marketing many agencies still rely on cold calling and emailing referrals and networking to generate quality leads. while these can be a valuable source of business development the best sales reps understand the role of marketing in attracting qualifying and nurturing the very best prospects they buy into the idea of inbound marketing and understand that cmos and executives arent waiting around for an agency to approach them. they are in charge. michael gass founder of fuel lines frequently cites a stat from a study of cmos that found that of those surveyed found their vendors not the other way around. the recession the rise of social media and the rapid advance of technology have dramatically altered business development. the mad men rainmaker days are over gass said. so before hiring someone responsible for your agencys business development efforts in addition to the questions regarding their traditional business development expertise you should be asking what they really know about social media content marketing and how to generate inbound leads. your business development manager should support and in some cases drive the marketing efforts of the agency and they should place the same value on the leads they did not source themselves. . asks great questions and listens intently the most successful business development people are those that can ask great questions said dave currie president of the list. through their professional curiosity they ask great questions and listen with intent toward identifying and truly understanding the issues the impact of those issues to the prospects organization in measurable terms and the importance of solving that issue for the prospect now versus later. prospects are already educated about your agency your services and the competition so the business development person needs to be able value to the conversation not just restate what the potential client already knows. to hire for this skill curries team uses two objective measures in the interview stage an emotional intelligence eq and a conversational capacity test. . sets goals and develops action plans good sales reps understanding that they need useful meaningful goals and an established plan for reaching these goals. this helps with a few different problems business reps in agencies face. an established plan helps with clarity surrounding the persons role responsibilities and priorities. without this the rest of the team wont buy into or support a sales plan. for many people in an agency sales is an unknown and mistrusted role and if the new biz person cant drum up support and encouragement they will struggle to feel a part of the team and find success in her role. business development professionals dont always get the support they need even with wellintentioned leadership so the ideal business development professional has to drive the ship regardless of what materials they have without waiting or making excuses said lee mcknight of rsw us. before hiring a business development person mcknight suggest that agency ceos owners set their own expectations how much realistically can one individual can do and how much support will they need from leadership consider the business development team structure will they be the only person driving business development or will you create a team around this person review the persons previous responsibilities were they selfsufficient what were they in charge of can they find leads set initial meetings and run pitches the business development professional should create an annual plan to establish business development needs aligned with finding new client growth. this will also help to prevent a common issue that causes the business development person to fail once sales start climbing they are pulled into account management to handle the additional workload. the plan should reveal how important it is to make working on business development every single day not just when things are slow a priority and it should align with hiring and capacity forecasts. . is the right type of salesperson for the role while sales and business development roles are both tied to generating revenue they require paradoxically different skills said jody sutter of the sutter company. these days the director of business development describes a caretaker of the pitch process and requires strengths like acute attention to detail and strong project management skills. good business development hires tend to be peoplepleasers who get fulfillment from supporting a team so that it can perform at its best. the other type is the salesfocused personality what brent hodgins managing partner at mirren describes as the hunter role for proactive prospecting. the hunter is a more aggressive salesperson focused on results versus detail and process hodgins said. in fact while sometimes appearing less organized on the surface they can perform well at delivering new leads. however someone focused on managing competitive reviews rfps tends to be more detail oriented and buttoned down but finds little inspiration in the idea of picking up the phone to call on prospects. often without even realizing it pitch managers actually resist prospecting. this is common with most account people as well. hodgins continued agencies often attempt to have one character type take on both roles. it then fails with the blame landing squarely on the shoulders of the business development director. the hunter is fired for not being a cultural fit and disorganized while the pitch manager is fired for not proactively generating new leads for the agency. the issue is do you simply want someone to prospect for new clients qualify and set up meetings so that the owner ceo can close the deal or do you need someone to build a team around someone who can create the business development strategy processes and be an important member of the leadership team most ad agency ceos expect their business development leads to excel at both roles and are often disappointed when they dont said sutter. . possesses a high curiosity quotient according to an article written by tomas chamorropremuzic in harvard business review those who possess a high curiosity quotient are more adept at handling complexity and ambiguity they are more skilled in producing simple solutions to complex problems. this is a skill that peter levitan thinks every business development person should have especially as the marketing and agency landscape becomes more complex and competitive. we can train business development professionals in sales techniques in understanding our agencys skills and the needs and pain points of our prospective clients. we cannot however train people to be curious levitan said. that means being actively curious about our staff and culture our industry the clients persona and category and importantly understanding the true value of our sales proposition. the bottom line is that curious people build stronger relationships and that is the essence of a great salesperson. . ability to build a brand agencies understand the importance of building a brand creating a differentiated and meaningful market position and generating awareness and value around the brand for their clients yet they so rarely do this for themselves. and that means most agencies are indistinguishable from another they offer the same services describe themselves in the same way sell to anyone and fail to communicate their value. karla moraleslee of the art of business development believes that hiring someone who understands the importance of brand building in attracting and selling prospects is essential. in my experience agencies look for all the wrong things when hiring a business development person said moraleslee. cold calling no longer works. today the best business development people are marketingsavvy brand ambassadors. beyond the day to day you need to hire someone who can build a brand externally and a business development culture internally. business development professionals need to not only be able to define their brand but also be able to drive change throughout the marketing and sales practices of the company by defining an ideal client profile and qualifying which clients are a good fit and which are not marketing its firm hiring and recruiting practices and even determining its value through pricing. . sets realistic expectations with clients a business development development rep should be wellversed in setting and managing expectations with prospects so your firm can exceed those expectations. this might be about when a proposal will be delivered promising tomorrow when it typically takes your team three days to create a proposal is not acceptable or creating an accurate picture of what it will be like to work with your agency. this person needs to be able to communicate your agencys values personality and culture to help potential clients understand what it will be like to work with your team and if your point of views match up. . indepth knowledge of the agency business while some will disagree with this many believe that the person responsible for representing your agency in pitches or in get to know you meetings should have an understanding of the agency business and the services you are selling. now if the agencys owner can take over the role of a closer and you simply need a salesperson to prospect and qualify this is not as important. this might also not be necessary if you are willing to put in the time to train and budget to educate the person and give her a reasonable amount of time to ramp up. the business development person will be helping clients not only make marketing decisions but business decisions. they should have a good understanding of general business strategies the concerns and challenges of leaders customer acquisition and retention and the financial metrics that matter to executives. they have to be seen as a business advisor who can help the client to solve business problems through the services your agency offers. business development manager skills organizational skills communication skills technical skills interpersonal skills negotiating skills collaboration skills problemsolving skills analytical skills business writing skills selfmotivated business acumen flexibility and adaptability so how can you be successful as a business development manager here are a some skills you should develop. organizational skills communication skills technical skills interpersonal skills negotiating skills collaboration skills problemsolving skills analytical skills business writing skills selfmotivated business acumen flexibility and adaptabilitythe art of storytelling in business communications storytelling as a business communication skill by sabita ryder october storytelling follow communication leadership take the next step seminar storytelling power secrets for exceptional communication seminar building better work relationships new techniques for resultsoriented communication seminar communication and interpersonal skills for technical professionals business leaders must exhibit the interpersonal and business communication skills that allow them to form positive relationships with others. and when it comes to establishing and maintaining those relationships at work and elsewhere one communication technique really shinesstorytelling. storytelling is one of the earliest forms of communication. before humans could read and write they relied on storytelling to connect and share information with others. over time we expanded on how we transfer information to others by using written text and graphical representations. we worked to be more precise and concise making use of models graphs charts and bulleted lists. storytelling took a backseat for a long time recognized as a skill that only writers or performers needed to possess. having come full circle were back to acknowledging storytelling as one of the best methods for getting a message across and connecting with others. now everyone who understands the value of storytelling wants to be able to tell great stories. the unconventional power of business storytelling one reason storytelling has reclaimed its elevated status is that we now have greater insight into how our brains process information. we see how humans are affected by stories. as explained in the ama seminar storytelling power secrets for exceptional communication our brains dont distinguish between stories and reality which enables us to experience events that dont actually happen in our own lives simply by having them explained to us through words and or images. the sadness anxiety excitement or joy that is communicated through a story can be internalized and felt rather than merely contemplated philosophicallysomething that isnt likely to be accomplished with even the fanciest of pie charts. storytelling translates into new and improved relationships by encouraging something that great relationships are built upon empathy. indeed the ability to empathize is a base requirement for developing authentic relationships with others and the act of vicariously experiencing the feelings of another personsuch as through a storyis the very definition of empathy itself. when we believe that we genuinely understand or empathize with another person we tend to judge that person less harshly and appreciate him or her more. this understanding further develops and strengthens a relationship long after a great story has been told. the importance of improving business communication skills business storytelling is a great way to build rapport. humans are social creatures and as such maintaining healthy relationships is an essential part of our wellbeing. also having positive business relationships enables us to be more collaborative and ultimately more productive at work meaning these relationships have a desirable effect on the bottom line. its for this reason that successful companies place such a high value on interpersonal employee communication skills and why the ability to tell a great story is recognized more and more as an invaluable business communication skill. related posts plugin for wordpress blogger. . . ama when you develop your communication skills youll be equipped to build mutual understanding and connect with anyone in your organization. kanban vs. scrum which is better projectmanager. com skip to content home features tools gantt kanban tasks dashboards plans reporting timesheets pricing resources all training videos blog the project manager blog productivity project management leadership books templates guides community customers support contact about us login contact login start free trial features pricing customers resources menu agile kanban vs. scrum which is better by peter landau sep all training videos blog templates guides books software agile kanban vs. scrum which is better projectmanager. com by peter landau sep should you use kanban or scrum when managing a project well its a trick question because it depends on what that project is the nature of your organization and which path is best for your team. and certainly both methodologies have their value. in fact there are lots of methodologies you can use for your projects but kanban and scrum are often debated. so for the sake of argument lets put them together in the squared ring and may the best methodology win in this corner scrum scrum methodology has been around since the mid s and has been a core submethodology of agile since when ken schwaber and mike beedle literally wrote the book on it agile software development with scrum. scrum is a welldefined process framework to structure work often used by smaller teams in what they call sprints made up of tasks of a shorter duration to make the project more flexible and adaptable to change. the cycles are roughly twoweeks long and led by a scrum master which can be but doesnt have to be a certified csm certified scrum master position. related scrum master interview questions to find the right hire the scrum master is the team expert on the process and they are instrumental in guiding the team to optimize the use of scrum in the project. this can be through scrum meetings which are held daily in scrum but they act almost as a teacher throughout the project to support the team and give them direction. while scrum has been scaled to apply to bigger projects and organizations its roots are in agile software development and has come to work seamlessly in that smaller nimble environment. that hasnt stopped practitioners from using scrum in varying industries from retail logistics to event planning. and in this corner kanban kanban is from japan originating in the factories of the toyota car company. its a visual way to manage workflow. the name means billboard in japanese and you can see why as the process involves placing tasks on a kanban board. that way the projects progress is clear and simply delineated for all involved. less structured than scrum there is no real process framework only the model of the kanban board and the cards on it that visual represent some aspect the project. work is organized on the kanban board as testing ready for release and released columns. its used to manage work in progress. one value of using this method is that its easier to see the inefficiencies in the project schedule and address them before they create slack. such advantages have seen kanban used in visual planning apps where it can help with like storyboarding user stories and sprint backlog planning. a kanban board in projectmanager. com click to learn more kanban like scrum is used by agile teams and the issue of whether agile is right for your teams is a discussion for another time but the method is open to any number of applications. in fact almost any organization or individual for that matter can benefit from using a kanban board. the cards can represent any project phase task deadline team members even ideas or whatever you can imagine. scrum vs. kanban are you ready to rumble this should be an interesting contest as there are many similarities between scrum and kanban that make them evenly matched. for one both are ideal for lean and agile projects limiting work in process and favor a continuous scheduling flow as opposed to pushing through a schedule. both are focused on delivering fast and often work within a transparent culture to help with improving process and like to break the project into smaller more manageable pieces. they are embraced by selforganizing teams who are continuously optimizing based on the project data. why scrum process is better scrum is structured. if youre working in a project that requires more specific roles and procedures then scrum is going to fit that bill. it has advantages because of this framework. for example there is more transparency and visibility in scrum than even in kanban and certainly more than in most other methodologies. that works to your benefit when you want to get everyone on the same page so they can collaborate and work as a fully integrated team. another advantage scrum has going for it is that scrum increases team accountability. because youre moving quickly youre meeting often at least daily. this adds to the transparency of the project naturally but also keeps scrum team members accountable for their work. that means you can reward those that are performing and help those that arent. change is often a problem in big projects which are like tanker ships in that they take time and effort to turn. but not with scrum. it was designed to stay as a nimbler process that can pivot whenever that is called for. in fact it wants change or at least it can easily accommodate change. because of its makeup speed and tendency for small teams scrum is also a moneysaver. thats a huge boon to startups and other institutions where the bottom line is being scrutinized and honestly when isnt it problems with scrum scrum has come out of its corner fighting and it looks strong but there are some openings where it might suffer some damage. first off its that scrum master. you need to have experience and at a high level to get scrum working. if not youre going to risk scope creep. not only must the scrum master live up to their name but the team requires a level of experience too. if your scrum master or team are not up to snuff theres going to be trouble. likewise if the tasks are not welldefined then youre going to have inaccuracies. of course thats true in any project but itll come fast and furious in a scrum environment. secondly the daily those daily scrum meetings might pose a bit of a problem to your team especially if you have remote team members or an especially large team. it can be hard to keep scrum meetings efficient over a webcam or with dozens of people which is why scrum is usually best used by a small local team. this is key in the scrum vs. kanban debate as kanban doesnt have any team size limitations. why using kanban is better okay scrum has had a good round but here comes kanban and its looking good. one advantage is that kanban doesnt require the training and experience of scrum. its easy to learn and understand. thats a big plus. you can hit the ground running. kanban is great for improving workflow and minimizing the time cycle but it also increases the process flexibility. if youre looking for a methodology that can bend not break with the winds of change then kanban is for you. related kanban board software youre going to have less waste from the process of running your project because youre going to see it sooner and can trim what you dont need. it also improves the delivery flow so you get what you want from the project faster. one way it does that is by reducing the time cycles of the project which again speaks to its workflow efficiencies. kanban can be used by anyone in the project both general team members and more skilled ones can all work on the same kanban board. speaking of the kanban board there are no required time boxes. so no sprint. you dont have to reset the kanban board as you move through the project. it flows as long as the project needs it to. problems with kanban kanban is simple so the problems that do arise tend to be associated with using the kanban board incorrectly. for example an outdated kanban board creates problems in the development process of your project. another issue is when teams make the board overly complex. kanban is known for its simplicity so to add complexity goes against the very logic for using kanban and your project will suffer for it. the advantage of not having a timeframe can also be disadvantage. without a hard deadline its more likely that a task or phase will stagnant and take longer than it needs to. and the winner is um. there is no clear winner of the kanban vs. scrum fight. sorry. its really a casebycase contest and even a case of potentially using both methodologies to suit different projects or different aspects of the same project. both of these methodologies are champions of continuous improvement and as such are wellsuited to tackle any kind of work. its up you to decide which one is best for the needs of your project and team. now no punching below the belt. lets keep this a clean project whether you practice scrum or kanban you want to have the best tools at your fingertips to get the job done fast and right. projectmanager. com is a cloudbased project management software that has gantt charts for traditional waterfall projects and kanban boards and tasks lists for more agile and flexible strategies. how to define and build a great organizational culture in sign in get started mission originals subscribe photo by rawpixel. com on unsplash how to define and build a great organizational culture in beyond the keywords and catch phrases what really works david smith follow dec min read a companys culture is its identity. it is how the company views itself and how the company wishes to be viewed by the outside world but building the culture you want is not quite as easy as you may think. simply claiming some set of values or plastering catchy phrases and core values on the wall wont build your culture. since people are the most important asset of any organization and hiring topnotch people can be challenging it makes sense to look at what it takes to build a culture that attracts and retains top talent. here we go what is culture the first step in building anything is to define it. culture is a buzzword in the startup and corporate space these days but what does it really mean merriam webster defines culture as the ideas customs and social behaviour of a particular people or society. in fact culture was merriam websters word of the year i didnt even know there was a word of the year as usual a dictionary does very little for us in helping to truly understand the depth and context of a word. lets dig a little deeper. culture is dynamic it represents both what brings people together but also what drives people apart. it is inclusive of the things that make an organization great but also the things that serve as drawbacks no organization or person is perfect right. an organizations culture is represented by the values which it truly lives by not just by the words that it chooses to showcase on a wall somewhere. photo by paul bence on unsplash. however the problem with values is that they are words which represent beliefs or actions and as such different people will place different meanings to them. take for instance the following words responsibility grit freedom hospitality and innovation each of these words may mean something entirely different to you than they do to someone else based upon your life experiences and world beliefs. so a company that chooses to define its core values as a representation of the building blocks of their culture inevitably will run into problems of what those words really mean and how well if at all the company truly represents them. nevertheless lets dive into how a company can define and shape its values and therefore its culture. shaping values building culture in order for words to have meaning you need to clearly define them from your own perspective. before you go and plaster your core values all over the hallways and boardroom you need to determine what you want them to mean to you and to your employees. more importantly you need to live them. so if we look again at one of the words from above grit what does that mean does it mean courage resolve dependability endurance resilience or something else is it the courage to make hard decisions the resolve to stick with hard decisions do even you want people to make hard decisions alone each of these questions and answers will vary based on your goals as a leader or founder. for example ill say that i want grit to be a company value and by that i create a personal definition grit is the fortitude to face down challenges ride the storm with tenacity finish the job well and look forward to the onslaught of future challenges. there in less than sixty seconds i framed up a core value in a way that would be inspiring and motivating to employees and teams within my organization. now comes the hard part in order for this flashy definition to be more than just a whole sentence replacing a single word i need to live by this definition. when the chips are down and im the one in charge i need to show grit as defined above and i need to inspire others to live it as well. then and only then does it begin to become part of our culture. lets take for example the marine corps core values honor courage commitment. these are more than words they are deeply embedded in what it means to be a united states marine. from boot camp through initial training and into the fleet marines of every rank live the core values every day. the leadership lives the values and sets the example instilling pride in the organization and the mission from top down and it works now you dont need to start some crazy boot camp at the office or make employees crawl through the mud and do physical training with telephone poles above their heads to understand that grit for example is a value but you do need to clearly define it and lead from the front. more than words on a wall keeping your values as ben horowitz of a z says perks are not part of your culture. in other words the puppy spa the jello shots the foosball table the quidditch in the quad the rock wall the free food the bean bag chairs or whatever else it is that you think makes your culture so unique is not really a part of your culture. any company can buy that stuff and sure its nice to have sometimes but it is not a longterm intrinsic motivator to change the way that your people view their existence in your company. it is all simply a shortterm nice to have. the only thing that will truly define your culture is by determining what your values are and holding yourself and your employees to them every single day. culture is not built overnight. it takes patience sacrifice and vision. it requires that leaders have the passion to improve their organization and to motivate engage and inspire their people with more than simply words or perks. building strong culture takes time and commitment but is arguably the most important aspect of your workplace. if you want to recruit hire onboard and retain top talent theyll most likely be looking at what everyday life inside your company is like and what you stand for. likewise its critical that you not only find people who fit your culture well but people whose personal culture fits your organization well also. culture goes both ways and as with any good relationship it takes effort from both sides to make it work through thick and thin. in short culture is constantly changing. it flows like water or at least it should if you dont want to end up working in a scene straight out of office space. but this is a good thing. it allows creativity and growth to thrive. not everything you try will work. some things will work longer than others and some wont work at all. most importantly learn to make and stick by decisions that consistently align with and demonstrate your inner values. all else will flow from that. the reward if you can mage to define your values clearly motivate others to see the importance in them and stick with choosing the hard right over the easy wrong even in times of adversity you will build a culture that people respect and admire and as a result you will be able to recruit hire onboard and retain top talent for longer and at less cost than your competitors. about author david smith david smith is the chief marketing officer for salesscreen a saas platform that helps organizations around the world to track progress on kpis reward completion of key activities and surpass their goals. as a result customers experience stronger culture lower turnover better awareness on targets and increased activity on the metrics that matter most to revenue growth and success. how netflix does a b testing have you ever wondered why netflix has such a great streaming experience do you want to learn how they completed their homepage plus other ui layout redesigns through a b testing if so then this article is for you ill start with sharing my takeaways from a designersgeeks event i attended last week at yelp. the two great speakers anna blaylock and navin iyengar both product designers at netflix walked through insights gleaned from their years of a b testing on tens of millions of netflix members and showed some relevant examples from the product to help attendees think about their own designs. experimentation i really liked this first slide of the presentation and think its smart to use an image from the tv show breaking bad to explain the concept of experimentation the scientific method hypothesis in science a hypothesis is an idea or explanation that you then test through study and experimentation. in design a theory or guess can also be called a hypothesis. the basic idea of a hypothesis is that there is no predetermined outcome. it is something that can be tested and that those tests can be replicated. the general concept behind a b testing is to create an experiment with a control group and one or more experimental groups called cells within netflix which receive alternative treatments. each member belongs exclusively to one cell within a given experiment with one of the cells always designated the default cell. this cell represents the control group which receives the same experience as all netflix members not in the test. netflix blog heres how a b testing is done at netflix as soon as the test is live they track specific metrics of importance. for example it could be elements like streaming hours and retention. once the participants have provided enough meaningful conclusions they move onto the efficacy of each test and define a winner out of the different variations. experiment experimentation is the act of experimenting. many companies like netflix run experiments to generate user data. it is also important to take time and effort to organize the experiment properly to ensure that both the type and amount of data is sufficient and available to clarify the questions of interest as efficiently as possible. you probably have noticed that the featured show on the netflix homepage seems to change whenever you log in. theyre all part of netflixs complex experiments to get you to watch their shows. the idea of a b testing is to present different content to different user groups gather their reactions and use the results to build strategies in the future. according to this blog post written by netflix engineer gopal krishnan if you dont capture a members attention within seconds that member will likely lose interest and move onto another activity. such failed sessions could at times be because we did not show the right content or because we did show the right content but did not provide sufficient evidence as to why our member should watch it. netflix did an experiment back in to see if they can create a few artwork variants that increase the audience for a title. here is the result it was an early signal that members are sensitive to artwork changes. it was also a signal that there were better ways they could help netflix members find the types of stories they were looking for within the netflix experience. netflix later created a system that automatically grouped artwork that had different aspect ratios crops touch ups localized title treatments but had the same background image. they replicated experiment on their other tv shows to track relative artwork performance. here are some examples how netflix selects the best artwork for videos through a b testing the netflix experimentation platform a service which makes it possible for every netflix engineering team to implement their a b tests with the support of a specialized engineering team. what i learned a b testing is the most reliable way to learn user behaviors. as designers we should think about our work through the lens of experimentation. when and why a b testing once you have a design in production use a b testing to tweak the design and target two key metrics retention and revenue. by a b testing changes throughout the product and tracking users over time you can see whether your change improves retention or increases revenue. if it does make it the default. in this way a b testing can be used to continuously improve business metrics. are your users finding or doing one thing you want them to find or to do my experience is that often times users cannot always complete a task as fast as you expect and sometimes they cant even find a certain button you put on a page. the reasons can vary it might because the design is not intuitive enough the color is not vibrant enough the user is not tech savvy they dont know how to make a decision because there are too many options on one page and so on. are your intuitions correct sadly when it comes to user behavior our intuitions could be wrong and the only way to prove it is through a b testing. it is the best way to validate whether one ux design is more effective than another. at work our consumer product team have proved that through a b testing on our real estate website. for example they wanted to figure out whether they can make a design change to improve the registration rate for users who clicked on a google ad. they created a few different experimental designs and tested them. they thought the design that only hides the property image would win but found that the design that hides both the property image and the price got the highest conversation rate. explore the boundaries the best ideas come from many idea explorations. at work our product team works collaboratively across many different projects. with so many parties involved from designers to product managers to developers we get to explore the boundaries together. some of the best ideas are sometime from the developers or the product managers after testing out our prototypes. observe what people do not what they say when talking to users its important to keep this in mind they always say one thing but do it differently. i conducted a few user testing sessions this week and have one perfect example to show you why. i had this one user testing out a contacts list view prototype and asked him if he usually sorts filters his contacts. he said no because he wouldnt need do so. however when he discovered the new filters dropdown menu he was amazed by how convenient it is to sort and filter multiple options at a time and immediately asked when that can roll out in production. use data to estimate size of opportunity its always about the whys data can help shape ideas check if any a b testing are in conflict isnt it so fun to be a ui and ux designer knowing your user is the most exciting part of design process there is no finished design but many chances for iteration to improve the design and give our users the best experience possible i enjoy the opportunity to make subtle tweaks for our users measure their reactions and work with the product team to figure out the next steps. how to deal with industry competition posted october by harriet genever industry competition industry competition includes businesses that sell a similar product or service. so if youre starting an education tech app your industry is education technology and your competitors are other businesses creating education tech apps. all businesses have competitors and in some cases industry competition is so fierce that companies have to fight for the business of potential customers. this is why some players have a negative view of competition. a competitive matrix can be a helpful tool for thinking through who your competitors are and how your product or service is different from theirs. despite the negative implication of the term competition the very state of industry competition can have a major influence on business strategy. dont make the mistake of assuming that you dont have industry competition if your product or service seems truly unique. every single business has competition and if theres really a market for what youre selling and you are on the cutting edge of something thats never been done before youll see your industry grow and new competitors will emerge all the time. keep in mind that strategically responding to competition in your industry isnt just about your marketing strategy or how youll maximize your market share. your strategic plan for growth should speak to competition among your suppliers economies of scale potential new entrants and substitute products that could threaten your viability. financial dashboard the forces that drive industry competition according to professor michael e. porter there are five basic forces porters five forces that drive competition in an industry. industry rivalry the first of the five forces focuses on the intensity of the current competition in the marketplace. industry rivalry looks like competitors within an industry jockeying for position using tactics such as product launches advertising competition and price competition. when business owners feel competitive pressure or see an opportunity to improve their current position rivalry can become intense. sometimes it can even lead to industry disruption. rideshare companies like uber and lyft are a good example of disrupting the urban transportation industry. they have been able to leverage tech a new pricing and delivery model and a latent resourcecars that are otherwise sitting unused by their ownersto capture a huge share of the taxi market. . threat of new entrants new industry players are always a threat to existing businesses. the seriousness of the threat however will depend on barriers to entry and the reaction from current competitors in the marketplace. if barriers to entry are low e. g. it costs little to enter the industry there are few economies of scale in place new entrants can weaken the existing businesses position in the market. . bargaining power of customers customers can affect the pricing. prices are affected by how many customers purchase a product or service how significant each customer is to a company and the cost to a customer of switching from one business to another. if a company has a limited but powerful client base purchasing its product they can often dictate their terms and drive prices down. . bargaining power of suppliers if customers can drive prices down suppliers can drive prices up. this force is driven by the number of suppliers the uniqueness of the suppliers product and how much it would cost a company to switch from one supplier to another. if a company has few suppliers it becomes dependent on them and the suppliers in turn have the power to increase their prices. . threat of substitutes the demand for substitutes can reduce the demand for industry products and services. if a company increases its prices customers are more likely to switch to cheaper alternatives. this can significantly reduce a companys power within the industry. how should business owners deal with industry competition competition is everywhere. there is no way existing businesses can stop new entrants from trying to get a share of the market but there are plenty of strategies that can help them retain their position in the marketplace or get them ahead of the competition. identify a need in the industry and satisfy it with a product or service it is great to be the inventor of a specific product or service but sometimes all you have to do is reinvent what is already out in the market. for example as of forbes reports that nike is still the most valuable sports brand in the world in the business category with a value of. billion. the nike brand first became popular in when company founders phil knight and bill bowerman invented lighter weight training shoes that had an outsole with waffletype nubs for traction. they saw the need for a shoe that would improve an individuals athletic performance. in the company launched its nike air technology and this strengthened the nike brand further. improve on existing products or services virgin airlines was established by richard branson when his flight to the virgin islands in was canceled. he chartered a plane and offered other travelers a seat on that plane for. today virgin airlines still offers affordable fares fullservice flights and excellent customer service. instead of copying what was already being offered by other airlines virgin offered something much better to air travelers. focus on the needs of your customers apple has developed several innovative products and created a network of services that seamlessly work together. the company continues to provide customers beautifully designed hightech products that make working with electronic gadgets faster and easier. apple makes the customer experience central to the product design and development process by incorporating participatory design to understand customer pain points and opportunities. in addition apple has ensured that its computing and entertainment devicesthe mac ipod iphone ipad and itunesintegrate to create a streamlined intuitive system. do not focus on your competitors do not fall into the habit of constantly checking on your competitors. doing so will draw your attention away from the needs of your customers. as a result instead of developing your products into something that will address your customers needs you start looking at what your competitors are doing for their customers. this will be detrimental to your business and you may end up losing customers to your competitors. instead talk to your customers regularlyask them what they like and what they hate about your product or service so you can use their feedback to improve. do not underestimate your competitors you dont want to obsess over your competitors but you shouldnt ignore them eitherthat too can be bad for business. in nokia sold its handset business to microsoft for. billion. at one time nokia had been the dominant mobile phone manufacturer in the world but by the time the company was acquired by microsoft it only had three percent of the global smartphone market. nokia underestimated how dominant the iphone and android smartphones would become over the coming years. to avoid the same fate never project future success based on current market conditions as market players product innovations and customer expectations can change in an instant. competition is a good sign dont panic when other businesses enter your space. when others want a share of the market its proof that youre doing something right. others want to get in on the same business when they notice that business owners are onto something. when your competitors copy your moves it means you are leading in your industry. just remember to keep developing your product or service so that you wont get left behind. some competitors may turn out to be good partners in some cases companies that used to be competitors have learned that collaboration can be mutually beneficial. sometimes this manifests as acquisitionone company being absorbed into anotherbut it might also look like a strategic partnership where two parties retain independence. by looking at your competitors as potential partners and by creating strategic alliances you may open yourself up to more business and more success in your industry. sign up for email alerts from the liveplan blog case study a small business that succeeded in a saturated market the party and event planning industries are saturated with players in the us alone as of there are party and event planning businesses. but this didnt stop one former salesman from building a business from an initial crazy idea. iain fox had been working in sales but found himself feeling very unstable in his job and he was not enjoying what he was doing. in while on holiday with his wife the couple played miniature golf on a course next to their hotel. while there iain told his wife can you imagine doing this for a living when they got home fox came up with the idea of creating a portable course that could be used at parties and other events. he left his sales career built the course bought a van developed a website and designed a logo. on march crazy fox golf was born. when he contacted venues such as pubs and leisure centers in his local area of derbyshire and nottinghamshire in the united kingdom he received mixed reactions. but his persistence paid off and soon he started to get bookings. in the beginning he did a biweekly event in a local leisure center. when people started talking about crazy fox golf more business came in. this led to an editorial coverage in the local papers which in turn brought in more businessthis time through corporate events. when fox tried advertising in phone directories business opportunities werent as frequent as expected but when he set up a google adwords account the growth of his business increased significantly. crazy fox golf has continued to grow and has provided entertainment for a variety of corporate events for companies such as loral slimming world and british gas. fox started with a simple idea that seemed crazy to others but due to his persistence his crazy idea is now a booming business recognized in the uk and some other countries. competition is everywhere. businesses come and go. but consider competition as a challenge for you to improve your products or services. analyze and strategize. a good strategy will help you compete with other industry players and ultimately get you ahead in the game. the most popular startup revenue models the most popular startup revenue models regardless of how good your product service or app is its only useful when you can get it into the hands of your target customers. but once youve got a finalized offering selling it should be easy right not really. there are countless factors that need to be taken into account when you set out to bring your product to market like the industry youre in whether youre selling a webbased product or physical hardware the channels you use to attract your customers etc. the founder institute has helped launched many profitable startups around the world. apply to a program to a program in a city near you and thats why weve prepared an extensive guide that clearly outlines some of the most commonly used revenue models startups use to sell their offerings along with the advantages and disadvantages of each to help you pick the best revenue model for your company. business model vs revenue model vs revenue stream before we delve into the different types of revenue models we should spend a little time differentiating between the terms business model revenue model and revenue stream as they are very often used interchangeably. in the glowingstart article what is the difference between a revenue model revenue stream and a business model alex genadinik does a great job explaining the difference between those terms. they are summarized below a revenue stream is a companys single source of revenue. a company can have zero or many revenue streams depending on its size. a revenue model is the strategy of managing a companys revenue streams and the resources required for each revenue stream. a business model is the structure comprised of all aspects of a company including revenue model and revenue streams and describes how they all work together. types of revenue models there are numerous types of revenue models so this list in no way attempts to list them all especially since so many of them go by other names in the startup community. however below are ten of the most popular and effective revenue models employed by companies both big and small. genadiniks article different revenue models covers some of the more common revenue models that countless recentlylaunched startups use to generate their first sales. here are the revenue models he covers below. adbased revenue model adbased revenue models entail creating ads for a specific website service app or other product and placing them on strategic hightraffic channels. if your company has a website or you have a webbased company googles adsense is one of the most common tools get ads. for most websites adsense will earn about per page views. advantages making money from ads is one of the simplest and easiest ways to implement revenue models which is why so many companies utilize ads as a source of revenue. disadvantages in order to generate sufficient revenue to withhold a business you will need to attract millions of users. in addition most people find ads annoying which can lead to low clickthrough rates and therefore lower revenue. . affiliate revenue model another popular webbased revenue model is the affiliate revenue model which works by promoting links to relevant products and collecting commission on the sales of those products and can even work in conjunction with ads or separately. advantages one of the most obvious benefits of employing an affiliate revenue model is that it generally makes more money than adbased revenue models. disadvantages if you use an affiliate revenue model for your startup remember that the amount of money you make is limited to the size of your industry the types of products you sell and your audience. . transactional revenue model countless companies both techoriented and otherwise strive to rely on the transactional revenue model and for good reason too. this method is one of the most direct ways of generating revenue as it entails a company providing a service or product and customers paying them for it. advantages consumers are more attracted to this experience because of its simplicity and the wider set of options. disadvantages because of the directness of the transactional revenue model many companies employ it themselves which means more competition and price deterioration and therefore less money to made for everyone who uses this model. . subscription revenue model the subscription revenue model entails offering your customers a product or service that customers can pay for over a longer period of time usually month to month or even year to year. advantages if your company is far enough along in its development this model can generate recurring revenue and can even benefit from customers who are simply too lazy to cancel their subscription to your company which is the dirty little secret of a subscriptionbased model. disadvantages because this model depends so much on having a large consumer base its critical to maintain a higher subscribe rate than an unsubscribe rate. in the blog post comparing business models to sales models dave parker outlines the various ways that a company can sell their product or service emphasizing how the market you pick affects the way in which you take your product to market. here are the methods he describes. web sales this is an offshoot of the transactional revenue model in which a customer pays directly for a product or service except that customers must first come to your company via a web search or outbound marketing and conduct transactions solely over the internet. advantages web sales work with a wide variety of offerings including software hardware and even subscription services. disadvantages relationship sales are incompatible with the web sales model so if your company is related to consulting or big ticket items highvalue items such as houses appliances and cars you should consider employing a model thats more suited to your offering. . direct sales there are two types of direct sales inside sales in which someone calls in to place an order or sales agents calling prospects and outside sales which is a face to face sales transaction. advantages direct sales models work great with relationship sales cycles enterprise sales cycles or complex sales cycles that entail multiple buyers and influencers. disadvantages the direct sales model often requires hiring a sales team of some sort which means that it isnt optimal for small ticket price items. if your offering is priced below the range youll have trouble building a scalable company. . channel sales or indirect sales the channel sales model consists of agents or resellers selling your product for you and either you or the reseller delivering the product. the affiliate revenue model is a good companion model to this one especially if your offering is a virtual product. advantages the channel sales model is ideal for companies who have a product thats an incremental sale for their channel and can produce incremental profit. disadvantages dont employ this model if your product requires you to evangelize your marketplace or if your product competes with that of your partners as they will push theirs and not yours. . retail sales retail sales entails setting up a traditional department store or retail store in which you offer physical goods to your customers. keep in mind that the retail sales model will require shelf space that youll have to pay for at existing stores and is best suited for products that require logistics to reach your customers. advantages retail sales is a great way to offer deals and complimentary products to an existing customer base to help boost brand awareness. disadvantages the retail sales route is not ideal for early stage companies or companies that offer digital products like software or apps. in the domain. me article planning the expansion and revenue models for your startup sarah green lists even more effective revenue models for startups including two that are based around the idea of giving something to your customers for free to help generate revenue at a later point. . product is free but services arent this model is unique compared to others in that you have to give your product away for free yet require customers to pay for installation customization training or other additional services. advantages this model is great for building trust with your customer base and boosting brand awareness as any company that offers anything for free will generate considerable buzz. disadvantages remember employing this model means that you are basically running a services business with the product as a marketing cost. also a model like this isnt always the best for scaling your company in the long term so keep your eye on additional revenue models to utilize later on. . freemium model the freemium model is one in which a companys basic services are free yet users must pay for additional premium features extensions functions etc. one of the biggest companies to use this model is linkedin the most popular business social media platform. advantages similar to the previous model the freemium model offers something free to users which is a great way to give them a taste of your product or service while simultaneously enticing them to pay for something later on. disadvantages this model requires a considerable investment of time and money to reach out to your audience and even more effort to convert free users into paying customers. final thoughts remember to do your research and take the time to decide which model is most ideal for your startup as once you settle on a revenue model especially if youre early stage it can be hard to pick another. as stated before this blog post doesnt cover every revenue model used by startups but by highlighting the most popular ones you should have enough information to help you pick the revenue model that will boost your startup into the big leagues. market research justas markus mar min read comments what is market research what is market research market research is a systematic process of collecting analyzing and interpreting information. the information could be about a target market consumers competitors and the industry as a whole. this is the foundation of any successful company. the research has a number of different purposes from identifying a new market to launching a new business. market research helps entrepreneurs make wellinformed decisions. it can take the guesswork out of innovation and funnel resources into ideas and projects that hold the most potential. businesses at different stages of growth carry out market research for different reasons. there is a list of ways of how businesses can use market research determine the feasibility of a new business. if market research indicates theres little or no demand for the product or service the business is unlikely to succeed. identify and develop potential new markets. keep close tabs on marketing trends and develop strategies on how to stay ahead or adapt to changing market conditions. test the demand for new products or features. ensure optimal product placement how when and where should a product enter the market. improve and innovate their business. you can identify issues with certain business aspects such as customer service early. this can help companies overcome costly disruptions later. boost the success of their promotional campaigns. by gauging customer sentiment and understanding the perception of their brand businesses can better shape their branding and marketing strategies. how to do market research there are two types of market research data primary information and secondary information. primary information is firsthand data gathered from original sources. you either collect the data yourself or hire someone to do it for you. the bottom line is that you control the process from a to z. secondary information is information and data that has been gathered by others and is publicly available either online or offline. this could be data published in newspapers reports journals and so on or information freely available online. the downside is that everyone has access to this information and you have had no control over the collection methods. types of information collected through both primary and secondary sources can be either qualitative or quantitative. qualitative information helps you gain a better understanding of how people feel about certain topics. you can ask them what they think and how why they make choices that they do. the best sources to collect qualitative information include indepth interviews focus groups and direct observations. quantitative information is statistical data and tends to be more structured. closed question questionnaires and surveys fall under this type of information. sources of primary market research primary research is often more expensive and timeconsuming. but it is the best way to get the information that your business needs. the most popular primary research tools are customer surveys. surveys conducted via phone in person on paper or using an online survey software like surveymonkey are hugely informative. its a list of questions crafted in a way that gives you the best possible insight into how a customer feels about your product or service your brand and the experience you provide. it can be as broad or as specific as you want. indepth interviews. carried out either by phone or facetoface indepth interviews give you an opportunity to ask more probing questions. you can also followup with an interviewee wherever necessary to obtain satisfactory answers. focus groups. a focus group is an organized session with a group of people that share some common characteristics. these characteristics include age location buying habits etc. they will participate in a discussion of a predefined topic led by a moderator. its an expensive but effective method of getting feedback on bigger scale upgrades product features or new products. observation. it involves watching or videorecording how consumers interact with a product or service in a natural setting. although a timeconsuming method it has the advantage of providing unbiased research. this is because consumers are not under any pressure and will behave naturally. sources of secondary market research often referred to as desk research secondary market research is best suited for gathering broad insights into market trends. this helps to predict and analyze the current situation in terms of competition. the most popular secondary research sources are government reports and studies trade or industryspecific journals magazines newspapers television and radio academic papers and educational resources literature reviews online articles and case studiesthe habits of highly effective strategic account managers blog strategic account management doesnt happen by accident its made up of formalized repeatable and measurable processes. luckily like other good habits these processes can be learned and in time become engrained in your company culture. here are our seven habits for highly effective strategic account managers execute a smooth handoff from sales to account management. create and refine a scripted orderly handoff from sales to your account management team. make sure that every new customer belongs to someone in your company and that your new customer is at minimum being tracked in a methodical way and optimally being proactively and strategically advised and engaged. conduct research. sift through all the intelligence marketing and sales gathered during the lead nurturing and sales process and then augment that with more researchabout your customers business its markets challenges goals and competitors. your goal is to figure out how you can help your customer meet their goals and solve their problems. begin by reading your customers annual report and industry research about the health of their industry. is their company growing why if its public what is it telling the street what are managements key initiatives pore over their website. read what analysts have to say about their company and industry. identify and understand stakeholder roles responsibilities and constraints. conduct a needs assessment. with all this research in hand now you can go figure out what you can do for your customerbeyond selling the product or service it just purchased. maybe your fresh eyeballs see a potential problem looming. maybe you have a fresh take on an old problem the company has been banging away at for a long time. uncover all the opportunities you can to help this customer be more successfuland enrich your relationship. your ultimate goal is to grow with the customer not away. create a rocksolid account plan. write down all those great ideas in a strategic plan that your account management team hammers over and polishes to a sheen. figure out what your customer really needs and which of these needs youre able to fill. make recommendations about how other companies can help or augment your plan to include complementary service offerings. we understand that youre not doing charity work here but putting your customers welfare above your own profits will generate returns to you in the long run. convert that plan into a strategic proposal. surprise your customer by showing that youve done your homework gone above and beyond the call of duty really taken its business problems to heart and put your best people on those problems to come up with ideas for solving them and being more successful. demonstrate that youre in it for the long haul that you value this business and that you want the company to succeednot only with your product but as a company. refresh the strategic proposal at key juncturesannual planning quarterly business review when the competition starts to nip at the customers heels. establish a cadence for meeting and reporting. decide how often you will communicate with your customer for what purpose and using what venues. be proactive. never let your customer be left wondering when or how they will hear from you. keep the relationship crackling. keep the partnership going by continuing to stay up on that customers issues understanding how the company is using your product resolving problems along the way deepening the relationship bringing fresh ideas to the table never letting the relationship go stale. remember competitors are wolves. theyre constantly coming on to your customers just as you are to theirs. dont let a relationship grow stale and create an opening where a competitor can woo your customer away. this is an excerpt from the modern guide to b b marketing. download it now to get our recommendations for how to measure the effectiveness of your marketing programs at every point along the customer life cycle. tags customer experiencethe role of a product manager the startup medium sign in get started medium things submit the role of a product manager michael siliski follow oct min read i was reading ben horowitzs book last week and a section on integrating new team members and setting expectations jumped out to me. particularly expectations. product management is an ambiguous role by nature. most of the performance gaps i have seen over the years are directly attributable to a failure on the managers my part to set clear expectations. same for getting high performers to seize growth opportunitiesi know my own professional growth has been limited more often by my failure to recognize something additional i could be doing than it has been by a lack of capabilities to go do it. were in the middle of our semiannual performance review cycle here at google and i think we could do better at communicating expectations to pms. so i wrote up this summary of the role of a product manager for my team. it seeks to establish a shared set of expectations and language that we can refer back to over time. its what i look for in recruiting how i gauge performance and what i measure myself against to see where i can do better. it tells you what you need to get done but its not prescriptive about how you do it. its also levelagnostic as you progress you just do more of these things better over bigger scope. vision strategy you own the vision strategy and roadmap. you know the market our users the product and the competition. you create innovative product plans that address real user needs. you make the right judgments repeatedly. you tell the story of what were building how well get there why it will be awesome and why well win. you drive alignment with the development team within the team across teams crossfunctionally with your manager with your reports if youre a manager. if i ask different people what youre building and why ill get one answer. execution impact you drive execution and remove roadblocks. you know where we are and where well be in months and when to change those plans. you know what needs to be done now and what can wait and you focus the team on the key priorities. you make them happen faster and better. you ensure the product is worldclass. you are constantly product testing in realworld conditions. you define progress and impact measure them and maximize results. you convince other people to do what you need them to do for the good of the product. you drive things to closure. communication visibility you are the face of the product in the organization. people bring you questions advice and ideas. you represent and champion the team. you ensure that everyone your manager execs ops teams down the hallway knows who you are what your team is doing and what impact your team is having. you build relationships that help the team get things done. you ensure the products story is told and understood internally and externally. you create collateral faqs docs and presentations that can be leveraged by marketing pr sales bd executives etc. honesty culture you are open honest and fair. you build trust credibility and respect with the team. you act with integrity. you do not politick or backstab. you create a strong team with high morale and build camaraderie. people like working with you. you make others around you better. ownership your success is the success of the product. youre accountable for devising and executing a winning plan no excuses. i can give you a problem statement but youre the one who determines what your job is. you dont get driven around by the team you figure out what the team needs and you deliver that. if there are gaps in vision strategy execution impact communication visibility team culture team capabilities or anything else you own them. further reading good product manager bad product manager by bhorowitz product managerone cow describes eight business models written by jennifer gueringer also shared on startups. co. business theory can be tricky to understand. leave it to the power of one cow to help you grasp the workings of these popular business models. the direct sales model a direct sales business operates through a network of salespeople. typically there is no fixed retail location. examples avon mary kay traveling vineyard the freemium model a business under a freemium model gives away a service at no cost before offering advanced services as addons. examples dropbox hootsuite mailchimp the subscription model the objective of a subscription business model is to retain customers under a longterm contract and secure recurring revenue. examples netflix eharmony the franchise model under a franchise business model business owners purchase another organizations business strategy. examples mcdonalds subway starbucksyour biggest competitive advantages yourself and your company culture there are really only two substantial and sustainable competitive advantages that are within your control. they are you as leader and your culture. youve heard people say it many times it all starts with you. as the founder and ceo of a new company talking to startup founders here but this can also apply to seasoned ceos your job is not just to focus on growing your business you must also focus on growing yourself. this takes a deep commitment to understanding yourself how you think how you act your strengths your blind spots and your leadership gaps. it also takes a deep commitment to working on yourself. the more you invest in your own leadership skills yes its an investment the better you will be at inspiring your people creating and seizing opportunities and handling problems and challenges. here are a few things you can do to push yourself towards selfmastery and leadership excellence. implement a leadership development plan. via selfreflection asking for feedback and or degree reviews determine what behaviors or skills you want to improve and then create and stick to a plan to do so. . practice selfcare. it is your job to optimize yourself for peak performance and to bring a healthy creative and productive you to work each day. building a sustainable life for yourself and your employees is crucial to building a sustainable business. . hire a coach. growing yourself into the best leader you can be while also growing your company is hard. having an accountability and thought partner is a wise investment. the second sustainable competitive advantage you can create is a strong positive company culture. not to beat a dead horse here but it all begins with you first and foremost. leading a company is akin to being a parent i. e. the kids are watching and most likely mirroring everything you do. even when you think no one is paying attention they are. they are watching what you do to signal what is acceptable behavior how they should act and interact if they should burn the midnight oil if they should treat mondays like good days etc. there are many things that go into creating a strong company culture. here are just a few things you can do to shape and sustain a culture that helps your employees and business to thrive. be thoughtful about your companys core values. no copying and pasting from the websites of the companies you admire most have explanations for and discussions around what each value means and then walk the talk as the leader. . stay consciously focused on maintaining a foundation of trust. lead from an authentic place and your team will follow. trust in the ateam you hired and they will in turn trust you and each other. . promote a culture of learning. practice and preach growth mindset and develop a feedbackseeking culture by asking for feedback as much as you give it. is affiliate marketing right for your startup february gobala krishnan whenever i bring up the topic of affiliate marketing for startups or business owners the response is usually something along the lines of i will try affiliate marketing when everything else fails. seriously is affiliate marketing suitable for your startup so is affiliate marketing right for your startups im not sure what they actually understand about affiliate marketing and just in case you dont know what it is either let me quote trusty old wikipedia for a proper definition affiliate marketing is a type of performancebased marketing in which a business rewards one or more affiliates for each visitor or customer brought about by the affiliates own marketing efforts. affiliate marketing is frequently overlooked by advertisers. while search engines email and website syndication capture much of the attention of online retailers affiliate marketing carries a much lower profile. still affiliates continue to play a significant role in eretailers marketing strategies. affiliate marketing is basically a revenuesharing arrangement between the business owner merchant and free agents affiliates. the affiliate can be an individual blogger working from home or large media organizations with a portfolio of online publications. under this arrangement the affiliate promotes the merchants products and offers with the understanding that a percentage of each sale generated would be paid to the affiliate. thats why its also commonly referred to as performancebased advertising you pay for measurable performance and quantifiable results. this is drastically different from traditional media advertising where you pay the agency for pure hitormiss mass exposure. affiliate marketing is not multilevel marketing although lots of sneaky mlm companies commonly use the same term to mask the true nature of their business. there is no upline or downline or whatever in affiliate marketing its a oneonone relationship between the merchant and each individual affiliate. here are some advantages of using affiliate marketing for startups you get traffic fast if you are running your affiliate campaigns through an affiliate network like commission junction us shareasale us or jomniaga malaysia disclaimer we own jomniaga your brand is usually visible to a massive army of affiliates. most of these affiliates can just plug your offer into their existing traffic channels sending you highquality traffic fast. you dont need to be an expert at everything want to master seo google adwords and social media good luck but youll probably still be mastering it ten years later dont ask me how i know. you should be an expert at just one thing growing your idea. get ten affiliates each a master in a particular traffic generation method youve covered it all without having to learn anything. you pay only for results almost all types of traditional advertising require that you pay upfront with almost no guarantee of measurable success. with affiliate marketing you pay the affiliate when a sale is made. its very easy to scale your affiliate marketing efforts and remain profitable at the same time. you dont need a big sales team downsize your sales personnel and hire an affiliate manager to recruit affiliates to your cause. you reduce your overhead costs and risk while leveraging on the affiliates existing market relationships. affiliates do not earn a basic salary so its in their best interest to make more sales for you. you can discover new markets no matter how large your sales team is you cannot possibly reach out to all demographics and verticals specially the ones you never knew existed by getting affiliates in a range of markets you may discover that your idea has the potential to be retargeted or spun off to an entirely new market. of course affiliate marketing is not the cure for all your problems. here are some of the disadvantages of affiliate marketing doesnt work as well if you have nothing to sell affiliate marketing works best when you are actually selling something. if your startup is built on offering services content syndication or selling ads it just doesnt work as well. an exception to this is costperaction cpa payperlead affiliate marketing which i will probably discuss here someday. does not work well for extremely niche products at the end of the day affiliates are human beings who respond to brands and products that they understand. if your product is more mainstream you will be able to find more affiliates who understand it and thus be interested in promoting it. if your product or idea is too niche you will have trouble finding good affiliates. even if you do affiliate marketing will not make up for a large part of your sales. you have less control over branding you cannot have complete control over when where and how an affiliate promotes your brand. the last thing you want is a spammer on your side. that being said if you choose your affiliates wisely and give them clear instructions on how you want your brand represented you will probably never have a problem. i think the biggest selling point for affiliate marketing is that you have nothing to lose to give it a try. you dont have to pay a boatload of cash just to get in and you can track your results easily with the webbased control panels offered by all affiliate platforms. you can scale up or down without investing in your own sales team. you dont have to wait till everything else fails before you try affiliate marketing because it may be a little too late. affiliate marketing should be one of the first options you explore as it will give you a steady flow of traffic and sales until youve cracked the magic formula and your business becomes insanely viral. remarkably effective ways to lead by example inc. com remarkably effective ways to lead by example lead remarkably effective ways to lead by example when you walk the talk youll be a better and more effective leader. isnt that what we all want by peter economy the leadership guy bizzwriter getty images if youre a leader your employees are watching every move you make. its not because they dont trust you and its not because they want to keep track of your every move. the reason your people watch you closely is that they want to know if what you say and what you do are the samethat is that you walk the talk. if you want to gain the trust and confidence of your employees and believe me thats something you definitely want to do you must set an example for them. but its not enough to set that exampleyour actions must be consistent with it. here are ways to lead by exampleand to prove to the members of your team that their trust in you is well placed. . be sensitive to peoples feelings and be kind to them everyone has a rough day or a day when everything seems to go wrong. be sensitive to those times for your employees and support them instead of tearing them down. . take time to make people feel special we all want to feel special. take time to sincerely praise your employees for things that they do to advance your company or serve your customers. . listen to peoples emotions as well as words remember that to percent of our communication is nonverbal. learn to read your employees body language as well as their emotions. . view peoples needs and wants as valid instead of jumping to the conclusion that your people can survive quite well without the things that they tell you they need and want take the position that they are valid and then do everything in your power to respond. . choose your battles wisely dont waste your time and energy engaging in fights that either have no consequence or that will leave you drained. . respect peoples differences each one of us is unique. take your employees differences into account when you make decisions that affect them. . avoid being defensiveand placing people on the defensive dont take honest feedback personallylearn from it and use it to improve. when you provide feedback to your employees make sure that it is candid fair and honest and helps your people find ways to use it to improve. . give people the benefit of the doubt no one goes to work each day wanting to do a terrible job. assume that each one of your employees is a good and honest person who wants to do the best job possible. . resolve interpersonal problems as quickly as possible dont let disagreements or hurt feelings fester. get these issues out into the open and work to resolve them quickly. . treat people the way you would like to be treated you know how you would like to be treated by others. now do the same for your employees. . never take people for grantednever dont forget that people are your most important asset. give them the attention and consideration that they deserve. the step facebook lead gen funnel for local businesses crazy eye marketing what if you could consistently and predictably generate more business you flip a switch and boom a flood of new leads and customers flow into your business. that would be pretty cool wouldnt it as a local business youre at a unique advantage to make this happen because youre only competing against your local competition who likely arent here reading this article. this leaves you wide open to really crush it the big idea youre going to send traffic from facebook ads to a simple step sales funnel that offers a voucher coupon for something of incredible value we call it an initial offer in exchange for contact information name email phone. youll try to get the new lead to follow up with you first by offering a bonus if they call you right away however if they dont call you youll follow up with them via phone and or email and or retargeting and or text. the end goal is to get the person into your business provide them with a great experience and upsell more offers. pretty simple right who this step lead gen funnel is for this funnel is specifically designed for small local businesses. brick mortar types where you get to actually see your customers and clients. it will help you generate leads and customers. here is just a handful of businesses this works amazingly well for. if you have questions or wonder if it will work for your business just shoot me an email. gyms health centers dentists chiropractors masseuses barbers hair stylists real estate agents restaurants retail live events and beyond the step lead gen funnel heres the step lead gen funnel in all its glory get this sales funnel for free it should go without saying but the images and wording need to change to fit your offer however the overall structure and strategy remains the same. as youve noticed from above i am giving this funnel away for free all you need is a clickfunnels account to use it. they offer a day free trial so you might as well try it out. whats the worst that could happen you get a few leads and customers the initial offer on page offer a voucher coupon to claim your initial offer. in the above example the initial offer is month free access to the crazy eye marketing gym. your initial offer is important. its more important than what both your ads and pages look like. if your offer sucks and no one wants it youre not going to get anywhere. and yes ive seen free offers bomb. just because you slap the word free on it doesnt mean people will want it. put some thought into your initial offer. do some research. see what your competition is doing. make it better. make it juicy. you want people to salivate over your initial offer side note your image s should reflect a customer receiving the benefit of the initial offer. for example if youre a gym offering a free membership show people working out. if youre a masseuse offering a free minute massage show someone receiving a massage. if youre a dentist and offering a free teeth whitening show someone with a brilliant smile. side note dont use stock images. whip out your phone and snap some photos of customers receiving the benefit youre offering. the amateur look from taking your own photos is real and people appreciate real. how much should the initial offer cost the initial offer should be between and. free is ideal however under is the goal. keep your end goal in mind get the person into your business provide them with a great experience and upsell more offers. if you have to lose a little money up front to make lots of money on the back end why wouldnt you initial offer idea generation google yelp and groupon i created a short video to guide you through the idea generation phase for your initial offer thank you success page page of the step funnel is the thank you or success page. its the page they see after giving you their contact information. the first thing you need to do on this page is confirm youre sending them the voucher coupon they originally asked for. this is critical if you dont tell them how to get what they originally requested it causes a lot of confusion and confusion is bad. the next thing you want to do on this page is try to motivate the individual to call you its so much nicer to have people call you rather than you having to call them and follow up with emails. to help motivate people i recommend offering another incentive or bonus. whats one more thing you could offer that someone would want to grab gyms on personal training session gift card for the snack bar dentists xrays masseuse extra minutes barbers stylists a deep cleansing shampoo restaurants retail an extra off etc. etc. etc. just remember its sooo nice having people call you so make it worth their time. side note no matter how juicy your thank you page offer is most people will not pick up the phone and call right away. youre going to have to do some work more on this in a minute side note i recommend using a call tracking platform like callrail to help track inbound calls generated by your thank you page. side note sometimes theres nothing to offer here. thats fine. you can try to get people to call you anyway without any incentive. your leads list tracker there are many ways you can track your leads. you can get fancy with a crm tool or keep it simple with a google sheet heres a blank lead tracker sheet you can use click here to open the google sheet. you will need to click file and make a copy on your google drive to be able to use it. then all you have to do is connect your step lead gen funnel thats built in clickfunnels to the google sheet with a tool called zapier. heres a video on how to make the connection heres the code i mentioned in the video that generates the date stamp zapmetahumannow the money is made in the follow up im going to get real with you for a minute most of your leads are going to sign up for your offer while theyre on the crapper or at work theyre typically not going to be able to call you right away theyre going to finish their business and by the time theyre done theyll have forgotten about you its the nature of the game dont take it personally. you simply gotta play the game and know the money is made in the follow up you have to follow up with these people. if youre not willing to do the follow up dont even start. now im going to show you a way to outsource it in just a minute but you need to understand that following up is something you will have to do. follow up strategies have them call you weve discussed this one already. in an ideal world everyone that becomes a lead will take the initiative and come to your business. we try to make this happen by offering another bonus on the thank you page but most people still wont take any action so you call them youre going to have to call these leads or at the very least hire a call center to do it more on this in a minute. after an individual optsin to claim the initial offer and theyre greeted with the thank you page they have minutes to call in and claim the extra bonus so you give them minutes to do it on their own. if you dont hear from them within minutes pick up the phone and call them. it has to be that soon every minute you wait the lead gets colder and colder. you want them when theyre hot what do you say to them what you say to your new lead is simple hi lead name this is your name with your business name. i see you just requested our initial offer and wanted to follow up with your real quick to action. actions see when youll be coming by to take advantage of it if you dont schedule appointments it might not matter when they come in however by asking them this question theyre making a verbal commitment to you and theyll be much more inclined to actually follow through and show up ie. if youre a retailer you probably dont really care when they show up however if they make an appointment to be at your store by telling you theyll be there they will likely show. schedule a minute call with our staff so we can answer any questions you may have. this is ideal for businesses that require a bit more selling before someone walks through the door ie. a plastic surgeon. scheduling a minute follow up call is a logical step for people to take and theyll be more inclined to go through with scheduling the call. of course when youre on the call with them youll sell them on your offering. schedule an appointment. go straight for the jugular of course you can have your own actions and try different ones to see which produce better results. i simply wanted to present a few frameworks to get you headed in the right direction email follow up youll use email automation to follow up with leads to at the very least send them the voucher coupon for the initial offer. the goal of these emails isto have them call you and or to have them use the voucher coupon to claim the initial offer if they havent already. if the person calls or visits your business stop sending them the emails. keep these emails short and to the point. for example hi lead name congratulations on being one of the lucky ones to grab a month free gym membership to claim your slot please give us a call at or just show up were able to hold your slot for days. if we dont hear from you by then your slot will go to the next person on our list. thanks nathan send another follow up email hey lead name it looks like you havent claimed your month free gym membership yet and i wanted to let you know your slot is still available for more days. please call or just show up thanks nathan ps. if you already claimed your slot please disregard this email. our systems sometimes take a day or two to catch up and a last chance email hi lead name this is the last chance to claim your month free gym membership. if you dont call or visit us today your slot will go to the next person. sorry to put pressure on you but we only have a few slots available and want to make sure theyre given to those who really want them. thanks nathan ps. if you already claimed your slot please disregard this email. our systems sometimes take a day or two to catch up thats all there is to it. short sweet to the point. retargeting retargeting is a type of paid advertising where you can present specific ads to a specific group of people. for example if someone optsin for the voucher coupon you can retarget them with ads that remind them to claim their voucher coupon by calling and or visiting your business in the next few days. or if youre hosting an open house or event you can retarget everyone with ads that remind them of the date time and location of the open house or event. you can do a lot with retargeting and its certainly worth digging deeper into its functionality ish text messages you can automate text messages for follow up however they tend to be more trouble than theyre worth. typically when someone receives a text they reply via text. so unless you want to text back and forth all day i do not recommend this option. if you decide you still want to throw it into the mix just remember to keep it short less than characters and have the calltoaction be to call you. for example hey its the crazy eye gym your month free gym membership is waiting please call to claim your slot running facebook ads to your funnel all thats left to do now is send traffic to your step funnel fortunately theres a pretty simple formula for doing this ad text call out your audience tell them what youre giving them tell them how many youre offering give them a calltoaction image use the same exact image as your squeeze page background. add text to it that says want whatever youre offering if you need help adding text to an image check out canva headline discount amount what youre offering news feed link description want what youre offering example simple enough right there are a few other things id like to point out with regard to launching your ad campaign campaign objective should be set to conversions. this means you need to have a properly installed tracking pixel and are tracking leads correctly ad set settings edit placements only show on facebook news feed and possible instagram if it makes sense to do so. you may split test desktop vs. mobile. conversions set this to lead again this assumes you have your pixel and tracking setup correctly budget start at a day audience make sure you target your ideal audience and the correct location s beyond that you can get fancy with custom audiences lookalike audiences retargeting and split testing more ads and offers. but all thats a bit beyond the scope of this post what you see above will yield you of the results. all that extra stuff can get you that extra or so however with what ive shown you you should have no issues creating a profitable step facebook lead gen sales funnel bonus how to setup a call center picking up the phone to call a new lead can be terrifying. i hate it. even if you call within minutes of them opting in for the voucher coupon they may have already changed their mind and become irrationally irate at the fact you have the nerve to call them. yes people will give you their name email and phone number and then yell at you for calling them. people are crazy. i personally like to avoid crazy as much as possible. its just not something i like to deal with. beyond having to deal with the crazy factor all these initial phone calls take time. and you need to stay on top of them too remember you need to call withing minutes of them opting in. obviously do this within business hours. if someone optsin at am call them at am. if you have employees you can obviously task them with this role or you can outsource these initial calls to a professional call center jills office a google search will reveal hundreds of call centers you can outsource these initial calls to. or you can hire a friend neighbor or independent freelancer. do whatever makes sense for you however i wanted to let you know who i use and trust jills office. i have no affiliation with them whatsoever. i dont earn a commission or anything by referring you. nothing like that. they just do good work and i recommend them. to be honest i havent tried any other call centers because jills office was the first one i came across that was us based and quick to reply. ive stuck with them ever since. so there may be better options out there i just havent needed to look. when is it time to scale your business entrepreneurs work long hours and dedicate their lives to get their businesses on the right time. when success happens it is certainly cause for celebration but also brings new challenges how do you know when it is time to scale your business after all if the business starts to scale without truly understanding who the customer is or whether the demand is sustainable the growth can derail quickly. the right time to scale your business while there isnt a magic formula that can tell you exactly the right time is to scale up your business there are many things you should have figured out before you decide to take that step. below are a few questions that should be in the back of your mind. if you have these questions figured out you should be in a good place to expand. do you have enough demand just because a business may be booming now doesnt mean it will be sustainable moving forward. one of the biggest challenges businesses face when scaling up is being able to attract enough customers and clients to support their growth. before you scale you need to understand your market trends and forecasts. put together various scenarios of what could happen to your demand once you expand and layout how you would respond to each situation. put a lot of thought and analysis into this. dont just base your direction off of emotions or assumptions. are your finances in order cost is another major concern for companies who are planning to scale. uncertainty comes with change and to help ease your anxiety around changes within your business its recommended that you have a financial plan in place to accommodate the immediate what ifs that may occur. put together some projections and simply see if your business can pay for business essentials moving forward. do you have the right technology technology and connectivity both play key roles in the growth of businesses. your business needs to have the right tools in place to ensure all systems are running efficiently and effectively. businesses these days need solutions that range anywhere from internet and storage solutions to voice over ip and cloudbased applications. the technological requirements of a business vary greatly based on size goals and structure of a company. youll need to have a clear vision of what your business needs before scaling it forward both in terms of functionality and cost. according to a study by cox business and forbes insights the largest technology challenge faced by businesses in the process of scaling is understanding changing technology needs and what products and services will meet those needs. the fear that you dont know what you dont know can be incredibly daunting when it comes to figuring out the right technology for your business. if youre unsure where to start consider hiring an internal it employee that can help put the technological processes in place. if you arent quite ready to hire internally for that position a managed service provider can be a very useful partner to lead you in the right direction. do you know your customers expectations when considering expansion it is imperative that you keep your customers and their expectations top of mind. your business should revolve around their wants and needs not your wants and needs. spend less time worrying about daytoday logistics and more time on connecting and innovating with your customers. after all your business wouldnt exist without them do you have the right processes in place companies are taking shape in many different forms from standard brick and mortar establishments to completely distributed workforces. it is essential that no matter how you plan on scaling your business you have documented systems in place to accommodate your companys structure. types of questions around processes to consider include do you have a training process in place for new employees if youre a remote company how do you track employee productivity are company goals documented for people to refer to will you be using cloudbased solutions for collaboration and filesharing lastly do you actually have a documented plan to scale your business if not its essential that you put one in place before you begin. do you have the right team in place one in ten companies is concerned with finding employees and how the change would affect them as well as how the change would impact customers. rarely can businesses scale up without hiring talent in some capacity. youll need to let go of some of your control and hire appropriate people to support you as your business grows. achieving ideal growth the cox business and forbes insights report found that customer expectations and technology have the biggest impact on growth and small business owners who get them right will come out on top. there are no shortcuts to scaling up. once you have a strategy to scale youll be in a good position to take the first step. remember every major company was a startup at some point. these are exciting times for businesses and having the confidence to scale up is essential when youre ready to take that step. by following the tips mentioned above youll be ready to scale your business successfully and will set yourself up for the growth youve been looking for. about latest posts chelsea segal chelsea segal is the ceo of targetwise. targetwise empowers agencies brands marketers with resultsoriented solutions that grow nurture maintain a social ecosphere. neutralizing all digital channels we accelerate performance by applying data driven optimizationin realtime across a superior blend of mobile video display and email inventory. converting the right people at the right time we drive brand solutions while securing optimal impact engagement results. as marketers were supposed to be great at running winning a b tests. were supposed to be able to run a test put our feet up and marvel at the success of the bversion. yet it rarely works out that way because most of the time our a b tests fail. we let them run for weeks or months and when its all said and done the bversion outperforms the aversion only about of the time. that means were wrong times out of. and sadly thats not even the biggest problem. the real problem is how much time all of this stuff takes. running each test probably takes anywhere between weeks on average. and the fact that youre only winning out of times means that most of us are only right about one time per year. so how can we do it faster why were only right out of times my leading theory is that we just have too many ideas. when we want to run an a b test most of us go online and search for a b testing ideas and heres what we get abtestideassearch if ive done my math right thats more than ideas in one google search. im sure theyre good ideas but the problem is theres too many of them. and what we often do is write them all down in a list and choose the one that sounds the best. once we run that test we choose another one from our list that sounds good. i think you can see where this is going. and this is probably why most of us are only right about of the time. because just picking randomly like that isnt going to get us the big wins were looking for. what we need is a process youre probably thinking process boring. but in this case process more revenue and more experiments. process more revenue when your challenge is having too many ideas using a process helps you come up with the right ideas know which ones to choose and really speed things up. the core of the process is to find out whats stopping people from converting and fix it. youre probably thinking thats the most obvious thing youve ever heard. but its often the simplest things that make the largest impact. but how exactly do you find this out lets break this down into a few actionable steps you can use right away. how to come up with a b test ideas the first step is to take your list of a b test ideas and throw them away. im sure they came from smart people but they just might not be right for your situation. and starting from a list is the wrong approach. were starting from scratch. the same thing goes for your gut. youre a smart hardworking marketer who knows your product really well. your gut is good it just knows a little too much. its what bestselling authors chip and dan heath call the of the curse of knowledge. were all so familiar with our websites and products that we just cant see them with fresh eyes anymore. we look at our website every single day and the way that we see it is fundamentally different than the way our customers and first time visitors see it. and in this case it really holds us back. listen to your customers and prospects again this sounds obvious but very few of us actually do it. it sounds obvious but very few people actually listen to their customers and prospects. if we want to find out whats stopping people from converting then we need to listen to our customers and prospects. theyre the only ones that can show us why. lets talk about some specific ways we can listen to get a b test ideas that we wont find on any list put qualaroo on your pricing page and ask visitors if youre not going to sign up today can you tell us why not you can do this on any page on you site. look at chat transcripts from when people chatted in with frustrations and confusion. ask members of your sales and support teams what are the common questions that youre hearing run a user test where you send users through your funnel to your competitions site and to a huge company in your space click here for the exact process. run a free peek test and in about an hour youll get a video back of someone using your site use a framework to run your experiments now that youve generated a lot of ideas from your customers and prospects what you need is a framework to decide what to test and when. heres the framework we use at usertesting. you can take it use it and tweak it to your needs. you dont have to use it word for work do whatever is best for your team step test objective the first step is deciding your test objective. so before you run any a b tests write down the answer to this question in sentences why are we running this test why the heck are we doing this how many times do you run tests without knowing exactly why youre doing it im guilty of this myself. this question will prevent you from running a lot of unnecessary tests and wasting time. step hypothesis all of these steps are important but this might be the most important one. and its having a hypothesis or an educated guess about what you think the results will be. we follow this formula if x then y because z. for example if we do this then that will happen because of these assumptions. and its very important to write this down. step opportunity size the next thing to consider when running tests is opportunity size. if this test works whats the total impact we could expect to see over a year again i think this is very important and often overlooked. if youre running an a b test that even if its wildly successful is only going to contribute for the rest of the year then it might not be worthwhile for you to take the time to do it. whereas if youre running a test that has a lower likelihood of winning but if it wins its going to have a huge impact on the business then it might be worth doing. but more often than not we run tests without considering opportunity size. step time to test next is determining the time involved. how long will it take to run this test is it going to take day a month or is going to be a really slow one because you need to get engineering and designers involved and you need to get signoff knowing all of this going into the test will help you. step likely scenarios then write out the scenarios that you think are most likely to happen. most of the time one of those things will happen so you wont be surprised. other times something will happen that you didnt account for. but rather than being dumbfounded you can approach it from a different angle and say oh i didnt have that as a likely scenario because i was assuming that the clickthrough rate would be between and the ctr was actually which i had no way of knowing. and that will inform you for next time. so instead of being in shock that your test worked or not you can track it back to the specific assumption that you were making which helps you make your future a b tests better. step next steps after you run this a b test its important to consider what you should do next. if its a big success how can you expand it what are similar campaigns you can run that will get you similar results if it was a big failure and thats okay a lot of tests are then what can you learn to run better tests in the future step what worked what didnt and lastly what worked and what didnt its important to take the time to consider all the work that youve done. so what did you learn what are you gonna do different on the next test conclusion again these steps arent meant to be followed rigidly. we use them on the marketing team at usertesting a lot but hopefully you can think through a framework for your own team or for yourself that will help you make the right decisions. so lets go back to the problem as were wrapping up here. were only right out of times which means were only seeing winner per year on average. if you can be right or times out of what kind of impact would that have on your business i think theres a big opportunity for us marketers to come up with our b versions by listening to our customers and prospects rather than listening to long list. and through that we can start to have more big winners each year and really drive our businesses forward. are market research and marketing research the same the balance small business the importance of market research to your business updated october just contemplating the need to do market research for your business can feel overwhelming. however you need to jump in because market research is key to the success of your business. first you need to understand the difference between market research and marketing research. market research is when you have narrowed down a specific target and you are delving into the behavior of that target. in other words its research into a very narrow group of consumers. marketing research entails dealing with a broad range of consumers. marketing research includes market research but it also delves into more. the best way to differentiate the two is to understand that marketing research is essentially about researching the marketing process of a companynot just who they are targeting. first lets look at how to implement marketing research which includes the following steps and the questions you should be asking yourself along the way problem definition. the problem is the focus of your research. for example why are sales soaring in your midwest territory but dismal in other parts of the country data collection method and needs. this is where you ask how will i collect the data i need to solve the problem do i use surveys telephone calls or focus groups determine the sampling method. sampling represents those you will be collecting information from. you need to ask yourself what sampling method will i use will it be a random sampling a sampling that contains a similar element or a natural sampling data analysis. you need to figure out how you will you analyze the data. will you use software or do it by hand also how accurately do the results need to be determine budget and timeframe. you must determine how much youre willing to spend on the research and how soon it needs to be completed. data collection. now its time to collect all the data you have available after following steps one through five. analysis of the data. at this point you conduct the analysis of the data that has been collected in the previous steps. error check. be sure to check for errors in the data youve collected and analyzed. errors can occur in the sampling method and data collections. create your report. the final step of marketing research is to draft a report on your findings. your report should contain tables charts and or diagrams. its important that your report clearly communicates the results that you found. your findings should lead to a solution to the problem you identified in step one. key benefits of market research market research also provides many benefits. it takes the guesswork out of marketing and gives you data that you can use to drive your marketing strategy and accomplish your objectives and goals. its a systematic approach that can make your marketing not only easier but more effective. market research includes the following benefits communication driver. it drives your communication not only with your current customer base but your target prospects as well. identifies opportunity. market research shows you where the opportunities are and helps you identify not just highlevel opportunities but assists in showing you the more immediate low hanging fruit opportunities. lowers risk. detailed data keeps you focused on the real opportunities and helps you avoid unproductive areas. ways to create a crazysuccessful sales campaign in modern sales automation its easy to make your small team of five feel like an army of reps. but more volume isnt always the answer to successful campaign outreach. more if you have email automation and dialing tasks queued up for your sales team but are wondering how to turn the corner with automated outreach this post is for you. ill dive into the tactics and tools used by some of the top sales campaigns out there. heres how you can turn your sales outreach from good to great plus some helpful email campaign templates you can implement today. hubspot calltoaction code if lte ie div idhsctaieelement divendif end hubspot calltoaction code. builtin dial analysis what separates the best calls on your team from the worst if the answer doesnt jump to mind right away you have a problem. its important to know the calls that get demos and deals vs. those ending with upset prospects or hang ups. dial analysis tools like rambl answer this question for you. you can see when certain topics are coming up i. e. competition budget and timeline and monitor for certain keywords i. e. cost specific features and point points. one of the best features of dial analysis is that it gives each of your reps the ability to see their performance from the perspective of listen time and follow up. sales leaders also receive full access to analytics so they can make changes on the fly. head of sales andrew johnson says dial analysis gives me visibility into the conversation quality my reps are having on the phone. with this information i can see calls are qualified and whether our call playbook is working. our reps love it too its streamlined their process so they spend more time on calls and less on data entry and logging calls in our crm. . automatic contracts are your smb reps spending too much time on the wrong prospects deals that will never have an average revenue per account arpa worth your time can still add value to your company but you dont want to use account executives on unprofitable accounts. what if certain leads could selfselect into your closing process tools like panadoc enable you to add lightweight contracts right into your workflow. this lets your reps focus on larger more complex deals and relies on a lowtouch notouch model to bring in smbs. with autocontract sending as part of your workflow you can have certain customer types those that raise their hands pinged with the right information to make a buying decision when and where its convenient. additionally these tools enable you to send onepagers and pdf content as part of your workflow. . hand raises how does your team handle content engagement when a prospect engages with an email you usually know its done its job. once you get the prospect on your website its time to get your bdr team engaged. dialing a prospect after theyve selfselected i. e. clicked on your content which signals they deem it relevant gives you the opportunity to connect with a prospect at the right time in the buying cycle. this can be achieved by using text alerts on hubspot sales. a text alert can be set to notify the campaign owner any time a prospect performs a certain action. for example if someone clicks your email and visits the pricing page you might trigger a text alert to the relevant bdr so they connect with the prospect to field questions and qualify the opportunity. . direct mail campaigns what do you do when leads dont respond put them back into a nurture drip campaign before throwing in the towel give your contact one last push through a new channel. direct mail has come back into the forefront in recent years as a great way to get through all of the noise prospects have in their inbox. how can you get direct mail to tie in to your sales automation tools like inkit make it easy to automate direct mail helping companies leverage exploding offers and promos to the tune of a. redemption rate. that makes for one nice revenue boost. these systems integrate directly with your outreach cadence your hubspot crm and your other conversational commerce channels i. e. chat. . automated email sales campaigns brandon redlinger director of growth at engagio says marketing automation is perfect for nurturing campaigns and email newsletters. but when it comes to sales especially if youre doing targeted account selling pure automation is dangerous. there are too many moving pieces in topoffunnel sales and redlinger says if you mess them up you instantly lose the trust of your prospects and will be condemned to the spam folder. he preaches the importance of coupling an understanding of the dangers of too much automation with a powerful platform that streamlines the personal elements of your outreach efforts. heres redlingers strategy for creating the perfect automated email prospecting strategy. create your campaign templates for your first warm outreach email follow these guidelines to boost your chances of getting a reply keep it short people dont have much time to read let alone respond to your email. aim for no more than three to five sentences. open strong mention a common professional connection or interest offer congratulations on a new job or award or send a relevant piece of content. offer a compelling value proposition distill the value of your product into one sentence. include a call to action what action do you want your prospect to take next ask a specific question or give them instructions on how to follow up. sound like a real person remember people want to connect with other people. buyers are much more inclined to answer an email that says hey prospect did you have a chance to check the whitepaper i sent let me know than one saying dear mr. prospect i would like to cordially invite you for a brief demonstration of our product. sincerely mr. salesman. choose a relevant subject line dont slap on a completely irrelevant subject line. heres a template for your first warm outreach email campaign. your company prospects company hi first name i saw on linkedin that were connected through common connection. write one sentence about why that connection is relevant. given your position i think you might be interested in what my company does. give your one or two sentence value proposition. are you free for a minute call this thursday or friday id love to see if i can help. thanks your name subsequent touchpoints should not be just checking in or wanted to follow up. instead formulate a legitimate reason for following up. here are four great reasons to follow up that will make you a welcome guest instead of an annoying pest reemphasize business value its all about what you can do for them. find a different way to show value. talk to a different pain point. offer insights share a different perspective on their problems or a novel idea for how they can reach their goals. educate not every follow up should be a pitch. instead offer a piece of valuable content like a whitepaper ebook or webinar recording. share news why do you think social media is so addictive people dont want to miss out. follow up with news in your industry product updates or news about their competitors. after some time has passed and you havent received a response a big mistake is thinking the lead is now dead. but thats not true it might just be a matter of following up a few more times. heres one of my most effective follow up emails for days out. quick question about pain problem you solve hey first name are you still interested in your solution cheers your name thats it. it gets great responses. some people thank me for reaching out others politely say no. both are valuable answers because i now know the status of that lead. set up your campaigns heres where youll apply a custom cadence for each campaign touchpoint. set up different campaigns for various segments of your list. the more you can segment your list the better your chances for a reply. if you have a large list start a b testing different aspects of your campaign to find the best outreach plan. here are a few suggested variables to test number of touches time between touches subject lines social media mix calls to action topdown vs. bottomup approach language and tone add your leads its time to start importing your leads and dropping them into appropriate campaigns. if youre using the right platform at the end of each working day you can drop the newly discovered leads into ongoing campaigns without having to start a whole new campaign. the trick here is to make sure you dont have the same leads in different campaigns. launch your campaign make one final pass through your list and templates to ensure there are no missing variables then hit send. analyze and adjust after youve given your campaign enough time to run take a step back and see whats working and whats not. hopefully you have benchmarks to compare how each touchpoint and campaign is performing. if not dont worry. start tracking now so you can run a datadriven prospecting campaign. a cautionary note beware of industry averages which are often inflated. companies sharing benchmarks are usually those doing well. furthermore many of these companies are much further along in their testing programs. so aspire to benchmark numbers but dont be held captive by them. these tactics and tools are all about helping your reps work smarter not harder. sales requires a lot of volume to get results but that doesnt mean more volume is always better. sometimes what your outreach really needs is better insight on what call types and content are getting the most traction. other times its about adding a touchpoint and remembering not to throw in the towel too soon. either way the determining factor for having your sales cadence turn the corner is your ability to iterate and try new tactics. inexpensive ways to conduct marketing research as small business owners we typically dont have the resources to spend tons of money on marketing research tactics like corporate american uses such as focus groups or national surveys which cost a lot of money to conduct. however we do have an advantage over big companies we are closer to the customer. which means we have more inexpensive and relatively easy options available to us. before conducting any sort of marketing research as a small business owner you first need to make sure your client list is up to date with current addresses telephone numbers and most importantly email addresses. email is one of the best quickest and budget efficient ways to communicate with your clientele. its also an inexpensive way to do some marketing research by offering current clients an incentive to take an online survey such a coupon for off their next purchase. you could also offer an additional off for referring your survey to friends or family who are not current customers. that way you have a chance to get an expanding survey base. there are online survey tools available to small businesses at a reasonable cost most of which provide survey templates that you can tweak to fit your business specifically without any knowledge base in research marketing. some of these providers include survey monkey which has a free basic or inexpensive upgraded options or constant contact which offers both email marketing and online surveys for a low monthly rate. another research option is to add polling to your website. this is something you often find on news websites that poll the reader about their thoughts on a specific situation. the premise is very similar for your website accept that you ask a question one question is sufficient that provides important information to you about your customers. for example on my photography business website i could add a polling question that asks when was the last time you had family pictures taken and give multiple choice response possibilities such as months ago months to a year ago years ago or i cant remember when. if this is the route you take be sure to change your polling question often probably about once every couple of weeks depending on the traffic your website gets. another option is to offer a link to a coupon on your website. when the customer clicks on the link set it up to direct them to a brief survey no more than questions in order to redeem the coupon. remember with any survey or polling question multiple choice responses are the best option. blogs message boards and feedback customer review options are always good opportunities to find out what your customer is looking for from your business and your product and they are inexpensive additions to any website. though they arent a definitive marketing research tool most customers who post a message have something important to say that you should probably be taking into consideration. and of course your sales team can provide some essential insight regarding your customers and what they are looking for. be sure to arrange monthly meetings between your sales and marketing teams no matter how small so that they can provide each other with valuable information that will help both areas to be more successful. and it doesnt cost a thing to have these two areas of your business work together. as always be creative. though you may not have the financial resources that larger businesses have you surely have just as much if not more brain power and pizazz. the five types of virality and choosing the right one for your product to grow every entrepreneur has the dream of making their startups product go viral. but too often this is couched in a nave understanding of virality. lets make our app viral or your investors ask you can you take your app and add a little bit more virality i often hear this described as growth hacking too. sometimes it feels like people believe virality is just magic pixie dust that can be sprinkled on anything. fortunately its much more concrete than that. but to understand how virality works you first have to know that not all virality is the same. many successful companies have done distinct things to help make their products go viral all in completely different ways. so i thought it would be helpful to try to classify the disparate approaches. if youre trying to build your company and grow your product it helps to think as specifically as possible about how to get your product in front of people. you can engineer features that will amplify the chances that people will want to try it. of course first you have to make a great product that people love. once they love it theyll talk about it more. but how do you actually feed them the language to talk about it and enhance that word of mouth experience how do you remind them to talk about it when theyre having a great experience or later you need to understand whats inside your core users minds and use that knowledge to help them share your product through whatever means makes the most sense. do you need to build incentive programs into your product and marketing plans or if people are making something tangible and shareable with your product like pictures how do you get them to share it in a way that other people will be naturally exposed to the product and then how do you make sure that the flow of interested people actually converts to new users as seamlessly as possible the most basic element common to all these different types virality is inception. the goal of all viral efforts is to insert or incept an idea of what a product can do into someone elses head and to get them so excited about it they want to try it and use it. thats the most important component of any type of virality. what is that little sentence that little hook that little reason why somebody actually wants to try your product out so heres what ive found are the five main types ways a product can do this. do you have another way i didnt cover here id love to hear about it. wordofmouth virality this one is straightforward its simply a product being so good that people cant help telling their friends about it. for example when google was just taking off people would notice you searching on alta vista or infoseek or another search engine and theyd tell you use google the search is so much better. so the next time you did a search youd try it and pretty soon youd be telling others about it too. a couple of years ago when we got our first iphone apps geeks like me were telling everyone they knew about evernote because it lets you sync notes between your computer and your smartphone. it often happened when youd see someone taking notes on their phone and theyd tell you they were using evernote and how simple it was to keep one copy of the notes everywhere. one other key to word of mouth virality is making sure your product is easy to find later. having a name that is easy to remember and to spell certainly helps google is easier than googol the number it was named after. missing vowels and doubled letters not having the right domain name or app store name always make it trickier. one test i like to do when trying out new company names is check the typeahead in the app store. if you are calling your application instagreatcoolthing you might realize users typing ahead will see instagram and similar apps before yours until you are as big as instagram. the other key is to make sure your product is easy to describe. the words you use to describe your product on your home page in your press messaging and in the product itself will be the foundation of how your users describe it. this is really important because its how your users will incept other users with what your product does. funny side features like googles im feeling lucky or facebooks poke often help to make the description memorable too. if you dont have a pithy way to describe your product you should assume your users wont be able to either. incentivized wordofmouth virality this is similar to wordofmouth but with a little added incentive for people to refer their friends. for instance years ago paypal would give you if you referred a friend and they created an account. similarly dropbox and uber have used incentives to great effect. refer a friend and theyll get more free storage and you too or a discount on their first ride. it helps when the incentive works both ways as a coupon for the new users as well as an reward for the referring user when the recipient creates a new account. because you are paying for it and discounting your service its not quite as clean or pure as wordofmouth but it can be very effective. demonstration virality demonstration virality is when the nature of a product is such that simply by using it people are showing it off. one great example is instagram in it was fairly difficult to get photos off your phone and into some useful place so instagram added tools for people to easily share their photos out to twitter facebook and flickr. instagrams filters naturally caught peoples attention on those networks. it provoked an instant how did you do that reaction. you can see prisma blowing up this summer in the same way. you can create these incredible stainedglasslike artworks with it and then share them on instagram or wherever. of course people want to know how did you did that so theyll ask you or they can see the little prisma logo on the image and then go get the app themselves. musical. ly spreads in a similar way as users and influencers create very cool music videos and then share them on instagram facebook youtube and people decide to try musical. ly to make their own. another example is pinterest. if i create a pinboard of fun gifs or wedding ideas or recipes and i share it the act of sharing is a builtin advertisement for pinterests awesomeness. even uber benefited from demonstration virality early on. youd show up to a meeting in a black car and people would be like dude where did you get the limo or youd be leaving a party and youd just press the uber button and a car showed up for you. meanwhile your friends were trying to hail cabs or call for rides. just by using uber you were a walking advertisement for the product and how much better it was. infectious virality infectious virality is when a product is designed in a way that people will work to get other people using it because it will make it better for both of them. its when one user is infecting another with the virus i mean the product so that they are both hooked. for example snapchat users have a big incentive to encourage their friends to download snapchat so they can send photos back and forth in a more authentic and safe way. twitter works the same way if you follow me on twitter ill have more followers and you can see what im doing and tweeting and itll be great for both of us. nextdoor is a really interesting example where even though people might not know their neighbors they can send them postcards to invite them and make the neighborhood community larger and more productive for everyone. and of course linkedin and facebook are the canonical examples of infectious virality where people invited you to be their colleagues or friends on the service. invitations are the key to spreading infectious virality. however false invitations or overly spammy invitations often have a deleterious effect on virality. when someone invites you to a service only because they invited their entire address book it doesnt feel personal or connected. and if you sign up and the person doesnt even use the product then the likelihood for the next person to become active diminishes greatly. this is what most people think of as classic virality because its how weve seen social networks and communication networks spread. and who doesnt love the special feeling of being invited to a product by their friend but infectious virality doesnt and shouldnt apply to all products. being invited into a product that isnt naturally social doesnt really work. so use this method carefully and make sure it really applies to your product. outbreak virality finally some things just spread because theyre fun to share or because theyve got a lot of popular momentum and people want to look cool by sharing them. youtube videos blow up because theyre funny or addictive and its just fun to share them with your friends. in a similar way pokmon go took off this summer in part because everyone was doing it and it was just fun to tell your friends about it and to participate yourself. of course there are other aspects to this games success such as the fact that it was leveraging a very established beloved brand but it also benefited from this virtuous circle of fun popularity and sharing. putting it all together when you understand the different tools and that they all work differently you can design or build virality into your product in a way thats very natural. i often see founders saying something like im just going to add an invite flow to my product. that doesnt work in most cases. if its not well positioned and well integrated an invite flow is just going to produce a bunch of ineffective invites that wont convert into new users. it might just bring in a bunch of transient users who dont stick around. you dont want to try infectious virality unless it really is applicable that you want each user to bring another user into the product experience so that it will be better for both of them. if your product is about creating content or having experiences that are easy to show off its often much better to focus on demonstration virality. and if your product costs money and has value an incentivized word of mouth strategy can really pay off. when you successfully create that moment of inception and get the idea of your product into someones mind you do need to follow that up with a smooth newuser flow. the person who shows up to your website or the app store is ready to try it. they are excited to try it and give your product some attention. this is your best chance ever to get them to learn more about what the product does and get it set up for their value. you need to start the onboarding process right so the product has a chance to become a habit and then for that user to spread it to the next set of people. its entirely possible to have mass deception where you find a good growth hack and get a bunch of people show up and try your product quickly. but if youve enticed them for the wrong reason they dont actually adopt the product or if they do they dont stick around long enough to feed the next round of viral adoption. so whenever youre thinking about engineering virality you need to be sure that its reaching the right people gets them interested for reasons that align with the intrinsic value of your product and leads them to the right actions. i still remember when i was first invited to snapchat. a friend texted me to join them so we could send funny faces back and forth and they would be deleted. when i joined up the first thing he did was send me a funny face and we ended up having a lot of fun with it. the viral hook connected directly with my first use. over time we learned to send a lot more types of communication together and added more and more friends and it took off. but if snapchat had offered free beer to everyone who signed up for snapchat they might have driven a lot of new users even faster but those people would all be gone as soon as they finished the beer. remember at the end of the day theres only one metric that really matters how many people are actually using your product. not downloading it not clicking on it not trying it for a day. actually using it. so your viral techniques all need to be aligned toward the goal of increasing the number of actual users. the evolution of a product manager josh mcwilliam by tremis skeete on may josh mcwilliam is a cofounder and vice president of product at college factual. their mission is to help every student realize their full potential through the best fit education their money can buy. while their focus is on students with the college factual brand they also have other brands like ed. ai for advisors educate. ai for colleges and bright hub for teachers. in joshs product tank nyc presentation he explains his evolution as a product manager. his roles over the last years have started with engineering and architecture and moved on from there to product management and now he oversees product but also data science engineering and ui ux teams. his current role is best identified as chief operating officer. what is a product manager josh openly admits that he has struggled at times to truly define the role of product manager. in fact many people both outside and inside the product community also struggle with this reality. knowing that the product manager role is dependent on ones career background and skills and the industry that one works among other things josh has gone through many different ideas of what product managers should do. build more product josh first assumed that his primary responsibilities involved satisfying his stakeholders and releasing lots of features. the problem with that definition however was that he had no validation process in place and his technical focus caused him to ignore things such as marketing. he found himself being angry with stakeholders for failing to validate product ideas despite doing exactly what he was told. he then realized that while his stakeholders may ask for certain things his responsibility is to know what will or will not succeed. build the right product the right way next josh began to think about his effectiveness as a product manager more often. he focused on the productmarket fit and user testing. at first things began to work very well. but after a while he started to realize that product success leads to managing more products until eventually you start to lose control and become a bottleneck. deadline pressure leads to making shortcuts and you find yourself going from being a leader or coach on the team to being a dictator which can create friction on a team. josh learned from his experiences with this that he needed to become scalable. josh discovered that once you start to focus on scalability the other areas start to work themselves out. you need to start investing in things like systems automation feedback loops and metrics dashboards. how do you become a truly scalable product manager joshs short answer to that question is you cant. to be truly scalable you cant be a product manager you need to be a product leader. to become a product leader you need to start letting things go and sharing them with the rest of your team. josh explains that many product managers become hoarders of things like vision. a product manager creates and shares their grand vision with the team whereas a product leader creates a shared vision with the team and continues to evangelize it. users. product managers regularly talk to users whereas product leaders ensure that the entire team is regularly talking to users. learning. products managers are always learning whereas product leaders are always teaching. answers. product managers give the right answers whereas product leaders ask the right questions. decisions. product managers make all of the decisions whereas product leaders delegate all of the decisions. power and control. product managers retain power and control whereas product leaders distribute power and control. efforts. product managers direct efforts of those in their company whereas product leaders inspire efforts of those in their company and beyond. in his conclusion josh reminds us that being a product leader is a matter of combining effectiveness and scalability. you need to be building the right products but also building them the right way and thinking large scale and outside the conventional ways of getting things done. being a leader is also very much about being a member of your team rather than overseeing your team. product managers create products but product leaders create movements or experiences. steps to defining great metrics for any product a mental model framework you can use for new products existing products and even pm interviews in this series part wtf is a metric introduction to the basics of metrics what it is and why it matters. part steps to defining great metrics for any product how to develop a metric from scratch. part wtf is your metric doing to your customers how to avoid the unintended consequences of the one metric that matters. m etrics matter. your products success is dependent on and defined by metrics. metrics are a lens into your products health and performance. defining your metrics therefore should be as intrinsic to your product development process as defining requirements. in fact metrics are one of the most frequently asked product manager interview questions how would you define the success metric for feature x the challenge developing metrics from scratch can be incredibly daunting precisely because there is so much at stake. unless you work in an industry where standard metrics are widely accepted such as in gaming ecommerce or retail metrics are anything but trivial. many product managers start bottomup monitoring and collecting the nearinfinite number of data points they can get a hold of. however an obvious truth quickly begins to surface not all data are created equal. just because you can track everything doesnt mean you should. some data are more valuable than others because they give you a unique insight into your products health. conversely there is a lot of subpar data that can cloud your judgement. a mental model for metrics lets step back. think about your product as a box you can start to instrument this box and collect all available data but this can become an aimless approach characterized by constant trialanderror. in order to build a product your users value you first need to determine the inputs and outputs of this box. your inputs are anything your users come to you with their problems and their resources. your outputs are the circumstances resulting from the use of your product. these become your goals. but this is not a black box. most products require the user take actions within the product to extract value and achieve their goals. quantifying and measuring these actions gives you insights into how and how many users are getting value from your product. when you track these actions over time they become your metrics. once you start to collect data for your metrics you can then put them to work towards evaluating your product. the results of your evaluations can inform any number of adjustments in your goals actions or even metrics themselves. you can start to see that this very simple model can be applied in any number of ways defining success metrics for a new product determining a new features success and impact revamping metrics for an existing product fielding interview questions about metrics for each step heres a bit more detail on how to do this. the game framework the game framework is a step process that can define metrics for any feature or product. for the remainder of the post i will refer to a hypothetical product but feel free to substitute in feature whenever a product is discussed. step articulate your goals this is obvious but you should always start by defining your goals for your product. your goals are critical to ensuring that you maintain a purposeoriented strategic mindset. they also serve as tangible markers for revisiting and validating directional correctness throughout the metrics development process. placing goalsetting as your first step forces you to be topdown which is critical for developing metrics. a bottomup approach is suboptimal because it relies on intuition and can often lead to analysis paralysis. to define your goals ask yourself the following questions user goals how will my users benefit from my product what problems do my users want my product to solve for them how will my users interact with the product how will my users feel when they use my product what is my vision for how this product will integrate in my users life business goals what are the tactical or strategic business benefits increase revenue decrease cost be more competitive enter a new market what does my business look like if my product is successful note that for many of the best products user and business goals align. these goals are often two sides of the same coin. once you have this set you are ready to get in on the action. step list the actions that matter the next step is to define your user actions or more precisely all the actions you want your users to take within your product. this should start as a qualitative list. dont worry about the numbers or whether they are trackable yet. here are some example questions you may ask yourself using the common arm metrics framework. pick the set of questions that align with your goals acquisition activation how will my prospective users hear about my product what actions do my prospective users have to complete to become a user of my product what actions do my users have to take to get value from my product at what point is my product solving a real problem for my users retention engagement what gets my users to come back to my product what do my users do when they are engaged with and interested in my product what are the actions that provide my users repeat value how often does it make sense for my users to take those actions daily weekly monthly once in a long while monetization revenue what form of payment does my user purchase with money or time what actions do my users take for my product to start charging if my product is free what are the reasons my users will opt to pay for it do they pay me directly or does someone else pay me when my users take action e. g. ad affiliate do they pay me for every action transaction or do they pay me periodically subscription you can also use metrics frameworks like aarrr to flush out the actions. the key to doing this well is to be comprehensive but not exhaustive have the broadest coverage but dont bother differentiating the minutiae. for example if your acquisition user action is newsletter signup dont worry yet about listing each newsletter signup interface. step define your metrics you are now ready to turn each desired user action qualitative into a measurable trackable value quantitative. note that if you havent already done so bring engineering and data teams in at this stage to vet your metrics and provide technical guidance on the feasibility of collecting storing the desired data. here are some major decisions for how to count each action direct vs. proxy can the action be directly tracked or do you have to use a proxy to measure the action for example you can measure clicks directly but you may need to proxy views with values like scrolling. individual vs. aggregate can you group many actions for an overview then separate out as slices for later analysis for example total revenue revenue by product line revenue by individual product. magnitude vs. ratio does it matter more for you to measure the overall magnitudes of the action or should you track as a comparison using a ratio whether it be a rate per time or a normalizing factor percentage per user etc for example you can measure total revenue or you can measure revenue per day and revenue per payer which will give you very different perspectives on the same data. intrinsic vs. heuristic can you derive more knowledge from the measure intrinsically or do you have to rely on heuristics for the metric to be valuable for example while daily active user dau may be intrinsically useful for b c apps a heuristic like number of paying users who were active in the last days may be more appropriate for b b saas products that are expected to be used monthly. for most this is the hardest step in the framework. some of your decisions are informed by strong intuition while others are informed by technical constraints or further data analysis. often you wont know for certain whether a metric is working until some iterations. at this stage you can also begin to weed out vanity metrics. tweak the metrics that can be gamed i. e. artificially inflate or deflate through clever design engineering or malicious user intent. for example inflating page views by using pagination or slide shows. step evaluate your metrics the best way to ensure your metrics are providing you the correct insights into your product is to test and iterate. you simply will not know how a metric behaves until you start collecting data. the most import evaluation you need to make is the functional usefulness of the metric. you can check for usefulness by monitoring the metric for any falsepositives or falsenegatives. for example if the metric drops does it signal a real problem in the product conversely if an issue surfaces is the metric helping you flag this issue of course you would also expect the metric to flag truepositives and truenegatives. different behavior with your metrics may inform iterations in each of your game steps evaluating metrics is the data trending in the way you expected is the metric stable over time i. e. not wildly fluctuating is the metric flagging issues with your product and prompting further analysis are these the correct data points to collect if you answer no to any of these questions you want to reconsider how you developed your metrics. evaluating actions are these actions reflective of product user or business goals are your key actions telling the correct story about user behavior does your action set cover all emerging user behaviors are your actions safe from being gamed by your users if you answer no to any of these questions you want to redefine the set of key actions. evaluating goals is the metric correlating to business or user success are your users happier when your metrics are positive if you answer no to any of these questions you want to revaluate how your metrics relate to your goals. ask yourself these honest questions and remember that you are looking for your metrics to measure the vital signs that give you an actionable indication of health and performance. applying game facebooks newsfeed example disclaimer i have no insider information from facebook. this section is pure speculation. the facebook newsfeed comes up as one of the most common interview questions particularly because it has the right mix of ubiquity complexity and opaqueness. lets apply the framework stepbystep g oals for the newsfeed can be broken down between user and business goals user goal i want to be able to see the latest of what my friends are up to without going to each of their profiles. business goal users are only coming to facebook when they have a reason to they are looking to post or they have been messaged mentioned. we want to improve engagement by creating an evergreen content discovery experience. a ctions taken on the newsfeed can be collected into the following qualitative list when considering engagement as the primary goal for both user and business logging into facebook to look at newsfeed posting to newsfeed text photo video photo video album live video viewing newsfeed items including watching a video scrolling through the newsfeed clicking on newsfeed items content name photo of the poster commenting or replying to a comment liking a newsfeed item or a comment sharing a newsfeed item to your own or someone elses wall person page group or as a private message saving a post yes you can look at saved posts later who knew hiding unfollowing reporting or turning off notifications for a newsfeed item notice how the list is relatively comprehensive but not exhaustive it covers all of the bases but doesnt try to split hairs between all the different post click or comment types. we can also see how product design around creating or changing actions can be a major lever for impacting engagement. m etrics is where this gets interesting. in trying develop the most useful actionable metric we can vet them through our various decision points direct vs. proxy most of the actions above can be tracked directly with clicks except for viewing a feed item. for viewing we may use a proxy to count the number of items viewed such as count viewed if of the feed item is in the device viewport. individual vs. aggregate because our primary goal is measuring engagement we care about our users engaging with the newsfeed in general more than any specific action so we will define a metric with aggregate measures. with that said some actions like posting are more valuable to us so we may choose to group them differently. for example we can aggregate newsfeed posting actions into the first bucket viewing actions into a second bucket and interacting actions inclusive of links comments share blocks into a third. magnitudes vs. ratios looking at the magnitude of newsfeed action is relatively meaningless since any given user can generate a great number of actions. it is more useful if we consider either actionsperday or actionsperuser or both i. e. actionsperuserperday. intrinsic vs. heuristic unfortunately theres no easy measure to determine whether someone is engaged or not. lets say a hypothetical analysis shows that people who post at least feed item or view at least feed items or interact with at least feed items are x more likely to come back to facebook the next day. we can use this data to develop a heuristic around an engagement metric whereby if a user crosses any of the three thresholds above they are considered engaged. pulling this all together our metric for the facebook newsfeed will look something like this where engaged user is a heuristic thats developed by aggregating both direct and proxy actions and comparing it as a ratio to total users on a daily basis. e valuations will come in the form of validating many of the assumptions we made above by putting your newly defined metric to work. for example honing heuristics we may find that the definition around engaged user is overly permissive and that of our users are regularly considered engaged which doesnt leave much room for insight or improvement. we dig deeper to find that of the a majority became engaged through the view at least feed items criteria so we adjust that threshold up to to create a higher bar for an engaged user. disaggregating actions we may find that people who take actions against negative posts hiding unfollowing reporting or turning off notifications actually correlates inversely to engagement. from this we can decide to pull these actions out of our interacting bucket bucket and develop a separate metric to monitor negative newsfeed behavior. shifting goals we may find that weve done such a great job on engaging users with the newsfeed that engagement is no longer the primary goal. instead we may decide to shift the goal to monetization where we develop adrelated features into the newsfeed. while engagement may not be the primary goal anymore we want to continue monitoring the engagement metric to ensure the new monetization features do not have an adverse impact on engagement. a case for defining your metrics before you need them in a move fast and break things world it is tempting to concern yourself with metrics only after the product has launched. however having metrics defined before you start development can translate to huge benefits because metrics help you maintain focus metrics set a common goal for team to rally around metrics hold you the pm accountable to your users and business metrics enable more objective decisionmaking during the critical launch period including triage and prioritization flying blind at any stage of your products lifecycle will substantially decrease your ability to learn. after all you cant improve what you dont measure. having the right data up front may be difference between success and failure for a startup i hope this has been a useful breakdown on how to develop metrics. please leave comments if you have any thoughts or ideas about how to improve this post or was able leverage the tools here to improve your metrics for more product management or general business writing please follow me on medium or browse my other writing. i can also be found at my website. co on quora answering productrelated questions or at the pmhq slack community if you want to chat product management startup metrics strategy managementwhat jobstobedone research can teach you about your users your product and your company what jobstobedone research can teach you about your users your product and your company productized follow jan min read whats is a jtbd theory by rene bastijans product leader and facilitator of masterclass on jobs to be done this post is a case study for what you can learn about your users your product and your company by applying jobstobedone a theory of motivation that seeks to understand why consumers buy and use products. a new way to understand what customers want and why they want it jtbd can help you become better at building marketing and selling products and services that people will buy. whats jobstobedone theory if you are unfamiliar with the theory of jobstobedone jtbd alan klement s when coffee and kale compete available for free as pdf is an excellent primer. besides the theory jtbd also describes what you are investigating when you are doing jtbd research. here is a description from alans book of what a jtbd is a job to be done is the process a consumer goes through whenever she aims to transform her existing lifesituation into a preferred one but cannot because there are constraints that stop her. at the backend of i interviewed twenty existing and prospective users of our product applying the theory of jobstobedone. i set out to learn about our users struggles their jtbd by deconstructing their actual behaviours at work what they really do vs. what they say they do. equipped with this knowledge i thought our team would be able to become better at having conversations with our users and become better at making decisions about our product development and marketing. the following outlines what my jtbdbased interviews taught me about our users our product and our company. i am sharing my learnings here in the hope that they will inspire you to explore the jtbd theory for your products and services. . we are in the business of helping our customers become better surfboard manufacturers the biggest learning has been that we are not simply providing a cloudbased onestop management tool for the surfboard manufacturing industry as we currently say on our website we are in the business of helping our customers become better surfboard manufacturers. this is the highlevel job that the business owners the people who are paying us are using our product for to get done. skatepark in estoril lisbon by amarquet this is game changing in my opinion. we must understand that we are more than a technology company that builds an it solution for people producing and selling surfboards. we are a company that is responsible for humans who are struggling and who are looking at us to help them become better. this is going to be a cultural change that will take time especially for team members who are used to thinking that more features are the answer to our users problems and requests. as a team we must learn to think every day how we can empower our users to solve their struggles through our product and thus make their lives better. . becoming better surfboard manufacturers is an ongoing journey my interview data suggests that just like learning to become a better surfer becoming a better surfboard manufacturer is an ongoing journey. at a high level this journey can be described in stages. leaning on surfing language the stages are st stage paddling turning professional nd stage popup surviving rd stage riding the wave scaling the above graphic is simplified. the journey to become better is not as linear as it looks. each stage comes with its own challenges and jobs and it can take a surfboard manufacturer many years even decades to progress from one stage to the next. the initial stage paddling is about transitioning from a beloved hobby shaping and surfing to a fulltime profession. there are plenty of jobs that the surfershaper needs to get done to make this happen e. g. acquiring more customers ordering boards and there are many hires to resolve these jobs e. g instagram facebook or speaking to surfers on the beach. this is when our product first becomes attractive to surfershapers because they believe that with a product that helps them get organised they will be able to enjoy more shaping and surfing whilst also getting the office management job done. another benefit of jtbdbased research is it uncovers the forces that are at play when users are looking to make progress. in the nd stage the popup the oneman show has grown into a surfboard factory with a small number of inhouse staff and contractors who do discrete production work steps assigned to them. as the business grows new problems arise. in particular keeping up with the increasing demand for boards and their timely delivery to customers becomes a problem. this is when they need solid surfboard production management. they hire various solutions for resolving this job from excel spreadsheets to capture and track board orders to employing a dedicated production manager. interestingly the surfershaper who started the business has now hired their wife to run the business side of things so that they themselves can continue to shape surf and promote their brand. surfboard manufacturers in the rd stage riding the wave are keen on scaling their businesses and sell surfboards in large quantities in the hope of becoming the worlds number brand for surfing. larger factories are strategically placed in several locations around the globe to satisfy demand. a dedicated general manager and sales team are in place managing large retail and distributor accounts. the factories enjoy a steady stream of board orders from their website and retail and distribution partners. level up your skills as product manager join rene bastijans andrej balaz for a full day of lectures live customer interviews and handson practice that will help you understand the progress customers are wanting to make by bringing products into their lives. get off the masterclass on jobs to be done in lisbon on february apply a jtbd code at checkout. at this scaling stage surfboard manufacturers are facing a new set of problems they struggle with reporting on sales forecasting for the next financial cycle inventory management and selling wholesale to distributors and retailers without direct intervention from the sales team. revenue management and enabling distributors and retailers to place large orders for surfboards and accessories directly from the available stock are all good potential hires for this new jtbd riding the wave. . we need to appreciate where our products jobs stop over the last years our product has grown into a behemoth of an application that could easily stand up to enterpriselevel erps. knowing that our users are going through at least stages with changing jobs is telling us that a complex onesizefitsall solution that wants to be a production management accounting crm pos and ecommerce solution will only serve a small set of users. we need to learn not to attempt to solve the entire working day of your user through our product and appreciate where our products jobs stop. why would we want to compete in areas that we have little expertise in and that have welldefined market leaders already anyway. new opportunities are right in front of us i found out through my research which features do and do not help our users get their jobs done i. e. help me turn professional or help me become the worlds number brand for surfing. we can use this insight to make decisions about which features to improve or kill. knowing our users jobs can also help us explore new product opportunities that will enable our users to make the desired progress as they move through the stages. table created in excel showing how a production manager struggles with scheduling new and existing surfboard orders. this could be a new opportunity for us. furthermore since we know our users jobs change throughout the stages we should consider breaking the product down into separate subproducts like intercom did that address a specific job for a stage and work together as a system. these subproducts could be priced separately and bundled up. essentially we could tap into new revenue. another benefit of jtbdbased research is it uncovers the forces that are at play when users are looking to make progress. these forces are the problems with and the attractions of our product our users anxieties and their existing habits. for example for prospective users in australia and the us our biggest markets it is a real concern that we are not in the same timezone. they need to be assured that a small team in portugal that is hours behind and hours ahead respectively is available to quickly resolve product issues that can potentially stop the board production. to reduce this anxiety we have to adapt our support teams availability. jobstobedone forces diagram by margaret wilkins understanding the forces will not only help our team have more productive conversations with our existing and prospective users it will also allow us to create marketing copy for our website and promotional materials that speaks directly to what our users value making progress and not only to what we value our products features. . our competitors are not our competition competition is defined in the minds of customers and they use progress as their criteria. alan klement when coffee and kale compete when speaking with our users i learnt a lot about the solutions they stopped hiring once they started using our product and the solutions they would fall back on when they struggled with our product. these are predominantly excel and google sheets to keep track of the board orders and payments as well as pen and paper to log work typically factory workers get paid piece rates i. e. by work step completed. knowing our real competition especially compensatory behaviour and existing habits also helps us understand where our product falls short and where we need to improve. for example scanning qr codes printed on the production order form i. e. the a paper that details the surfboards specification is a smart technology solution but if pen and paper do a better job for workers to record their completed work step so that they get paid then they wont fire pen and paper. whats next the interviews uncovered plenty of issues that our users have with our product because they simply cannot get some of their jobs done due to technical bugs and usability and workflow issues that stem from thinking with an it mindset. however i also learnt that our product is helping them getting some of their jobs done pretty well today. in fact in some instances our product has become business critical and is the defacto solution used to run the business. without our product these businesses would fail. this knowledge gives us confidence in our product and boosts overall morale especially at a time when all we seem to be doing is firefighting. my research is just the beginning of our jtbd journey and there is still plenty to explore. for now though we have gained invaluable insights into our users lives their struggles and motivations that can lead us in many ways. we must now incorporate this new knowledge into how we think and work if we want to deliver solutions that really help our users achieve their desired progress. surfs up recommended resources to get started with jtbd masterclass on jobs to be done a fastpaced and collaborative masterclass on jtbd best theories and practices. a combination of lectures live customer interviews and handson practicing that can equip you with an easytounderstand perspective and a set of useful methods to build market and sell products and services that people will buy. when coffee and kale compete free ebook pdf primer on jobstobedone based on interviews with practitioners including a short history practical case studies and suggestions on how to get started with jobstobedone intercom on jobstobedone free ebook epub mobi and pdf compilation of lessons learnt from using jobstobedone at intercom jtbd. info a compilation of jobstobedone articles on medium learning jobs to be done from super bowl ads an explanation of jobstobedone using superbowl ads american football championships final. unpacking the progress making forces diagram understanding the forces that are at play when a consumer seeks to make progress by purchasing a product or service jobstobedone quora feed this article was originally published on fforward. me. about rene bastijans rene is a product leader and innovator turned consultant who helps software companies identify growth opportunities through jtbd research. besides leading global product teams rene and andrej balaz organize masterclasses on jobs to be done in lisbon portugal about productized conference since that we gather annually in sunny lisbon thoughtleaders from product thinking product management and all kinds of innovators to discuss how companies are using startup style innovation to create new products customers love. experience the full experience of productized on your own schedule. with over hours of inspirational and training content. have you ever wondered what qualities investors look for in a startup to consider it fundable benjamin chong a partner at right click capital and a codirector of the sydney founder institute has created a three question test to help determine your answer in the article three ways to test if your startup is fundable on brw. many entrepreneurs feel their problems will be solved with funding but being fundable is very different from being in need of funding. being fundable is all about your startups potential to attract financing so you can grow your business. all startup need some kind of funding to survive but not all are considered fundable. is your startup fundable read on to see what benjamin chong has say on the matter. . are you solving a real problem when launching a startup keep in mind that your company has to offer a real value to the world or at least a part of it before you seek funding. here are some questions for you to consider what is the problem your startup is trying to solve is it a real problem or a perceived one have potential customers confirmed youre solving a real problem whats the market size of the problem last week i was presented with an idea for a personal electronic device that could help when paying for items at the cash register. while it was an interesting idea i couldnt see a real problem that the device was solving. . do you have a killer team great minds think alike so building your startup team is extremely important. investors look for teams of individuals with a combination of technical background business skills and industry experience that are driven to succeed. a great way to gain experience is by joining a startup and contributing to the success of a fledgling business. ive previously employedfuture entrepreneurs whove added immense value to our businesses. at the same time theyve gained an understanding of the frenetic pace of an earlystage business and developed skills from financial modelling to phone sales to graphic design. . are you gaining traction a startup with little to no traction will not pique the interest of investors. make sure you are establishing a solid customer base and gaining traction over time. this will help investors determine if your startup is viable. below are several questions that must be addressed before pushing your startup to the next level do you have users or customers is the rate of user growth increasing have you been able to charge customers for your product or serviceresources to help you grow a lean startup product hunt sign in get started top products live books company archive newsletter resources to help you grow a lean startup product hunt follow may min read if you recently launched a startupor youre thinking about ityoull inevitably hit the i have no idea what im doing stage if not once then multiple times. it seems that there are countless problems to solve that you dont necessarily have the tools or resources to answer right how do i gain early startup traction how do i find a cofounder or build an early team how do i come up with the cash to build an early team how do i know that my idea is even something people want. . . and who in the world are those people exactly if youve found yourself asking some of these questions theres no better way to find the answers than by leaning on the knowledge of those who have already successfully navigated their way through the same entrepreneurial journey. below youll find ten great books courses and other resources to help you build your startup effectively in those early lean stages. we cant wait to see what comes out of the learning for you. startup launch list things you must read before launching a startup. there is such an overwhelming amount of content on the internet offering up advice on how to launch a startup. how do you weed through all of the noise thanks to startup launch list now you dont have to. select from a list of pain pointslike coming up with an idea building a team raising money and making moneyand then get a beautifully curated list of the mustread articles on each topic. youll find great advice from some of techs top thought leaders including paul graham mark suster brad feld derek sivers seth godin chris dixon and more. traction course free course with marketing superhacks. justin mares and gabriel weinberg cowrote a book in called traction. it has quickly become one of the most important startup books because it details out exactly how to think about growing your startup which is the potentially billion dollar question all founders want an answer to. justin and gabriel created traction course to showcase supertactics in seven different marketing channels including email marketing content marketing publicity and display and social ads. this is not to be missed. good email copy email copy from great companies. even if it seems like such an overdone marketing channel email remains one of the most effective ways to build and engage your customer base. and writing email copy remains one of the most tedious marketing tasks ever. if you dont want to reinvent the wheel completely check out good email copy. created by the front app team this is a collection of emails from great companies like slack trello pinterest basecamp everlane eventbrite shopify and more. you can sort by tag e. g. welcome thank you new features billing issue invitation upgrade etc. which makes it super easy to find sample copy related to the kind of email youre looking to write. petit hacks acquisition retention revenue hacks used by companies. petit hacks is a truly useful resource. head to the site and youll find countless examples of hacks various websites use to drive acquisition revenue referrals retention and activation. each hack includes a screenshot and a short explanatory blurb. this is a fun site to browse if youre looking for new mini traction strategies to try as you grow your startup. brick by brick a free guide to building awesome communities. building products comes with its own unique challenges. building communities around a product thats another thing entirely. brick by brick is a comprehensive free guide created by sacha greif that takes you through the various elements of community building. youll learn more about engagement promotion moderation voice value and audience segmentation. this is a useful resource that includes tidbits of wisdom from incredible community builders like pieter levels justin kan josh owens and more. make this year grow your core business by launching side projects. when you subscribe to make this year youll get a stepbystep lesson every month from an experienced side project maker who will teach you how to grow your business in the most efficient way possible by building tools that create value for your customers. this is as lean as it gets build one side project at a time and see what sticks with your audience. and with only one lesson a month you wont feel overwhelmed by the content. traffic m free lessons from the pros whove built massive websites. in the words of traffic m creator noah kagan if you build it they will come. just kidding. it is hard to drive an audience to your siteespecially in the very beginning. if youve ever asked yourself the question how do i drive a ton of traffic to my site quickly and cheaply then this is for you. noah who has worked on facebook mint appsumo and sumome along with other traffic generation experts share some of their best traffic generation tactics. youll learn how to incentivize social sharing own your seo test your content create smart social ads. this is without a doubt some of the best advice in the online traffic game. growth hacker course a short course on the future of pr marketing and advertising. the growth hacker course was created by ryan holiday based on his popular book growth hacker marketing. he walks you through a fourstep framework that begins with helping you find productmarket fit and ends with retention and optimization hacking. theres only so much you can learn about startup growth tactics from a book at some point the only thing left to do is start experimenting in real life. this course will guide you through that process with various exercises you can try as you learn about each step in the framework. since taking action is the whole point and also the hardest part of learning were pumped about the design of this course. business model kit explore revenue models to make money with your idea. this kit makes business modeling fun again. if you arent sure exactly what your startups business model is yet the business model kit is a useful tool that will help you whiteboard what your company might look like in or years. there are different blocks to help you visualize your model e. g. consumers suppliers government product service experience data money exposure etc. . when youre thinking about the bigger picturelike multiple revenue streams partnerships and complex supplier transactionsthis will help you get your creative and organizational juices going. lean series books the entire lean series published by oreilly is packed with incredible insight and strategies for growing your startupespecially in the early stages when theres often no other option but to run lean. we highly recommend starting with ash mauryas running lean which is all about finding the right productmarket fit. effectively its a stepbystep blueprint for taking your ideas turning them into experiments and taking action quickly. once youve devoured that book pick up some of the others based on your startups most pressing needs. there are so many other incredible books podcasts and software tools designed to help you grow your company as effectively as possibleparticularly when youre first starting out. if you want even more resources to help you think through the best way to build your business you can find them on product hunt starting with this collection of lean startup tools product hunt the place to discover your next favorite thing. from pipes to platforms leveraging the network effect annie turner looks at network effects which when a company gets them right make platforms super successful and faster than anything the business world has ever seen. how can network operators benefit from network effects and create new value look at the table below and the first thing that shocks is how fast these platformbased companies grew especially when compared to their venerable counterparts. no wonder so many longestablished businesses are reeling. professor geoffrey g. parker who is widely recognized as a leading thinker on platformbased businesses and whose credentials span engineering and business points out that the worlds biggest five companies by market capitalization are all platform companies. apple alphabet googles parent microsoft amazon and facebook have displaced the oil companies and banks that held the top slots for decades. how do successful platforms grow so fast through network effects which every business needs to understand and foster. this is how it works the more people are on your network the more valuable the business and the more effective you are. whats going on in the pipeline model there is little in the way of network effects. instead there is a supply chain from raw materials to distribution. at every stage someone is paid for their contribution and the value accrues as the process progresses. the sale price has to be bigger than the overall cost for everyone to make their margins but there is little in the way of the network effect. the platform model collapses that process creating what parker calls a triangular platform see graphic whereby the platform provides a marketplace for interchanges between producers and consumers. it removes pain points for both and enables all kinds of companies to create new services and value and especially small ones that could never afford the resources and upfront capital costs on their own. youtube and apple are both great examples of this. youtube offers tools to help producers upload videos easily and quickly. on the consumption side there is search matching filtering playing and sharing. the platform deals with all the different standards and devices to create markets that didnt previously exist and run various business models on one platform. in january apple stated that in the previous year app developers collectively earned over billion. on average the company gets about percent of that as revenue share according to business insider. the platform provides a marketplace for interchanges between producers and consumers. it removes pain points for both and enables all kinds of companies to create new services and value. parker says platforms drop transaction costs like a rock. whereas you used to need an army of lawyers to get anything done now its plug and play. who can play can any product or service become the basis of a platform business heres the parker test if a firm can either use information or community to add value to what it sells then there is the potential to create a platform. this means there is a huge amount of opportunity for a lot of companies. simon torrance advisor bearingpoint adds its already a trillion market. today no telco operates like this yet we have all the assets and capabilities to do so. things to consider telcos inherently understand the network effect the more people are on your network or you can connect to someone else via partners the more valuable your business and the more effective you are. we created a global network for telegraphy then phone calls more than a century ago we can replicate this for digital services. heres how. forget facebook parker comments the b c market is largely done we need to look towards the internet of things smart cities and medical technologies the b b side. that is an trillion global economy that is rapidly digitizing and the b c stuff is an ittybitty side show by comparison. there is huge opportunity to be there first. dont customize configure be modular is the approach tm forum enshrines in all its assets and activities. the mantra is build open standardized reconfigurable systems and avoid customization. many telcos are moving towards this ideal to reduce costs risk and time to market and increase their business agility while leveraging assets. george glass chief systems architect bt explains what his company has achieved on this front to great effect. gain global reach telcos can exploit that modularity to scale by partnering with other telcos to gain geographical reach if everyone uses open apis. as parker says put the complexity behind the scenes and have something thats easy to attach to and pass data between. look outside shift attention from inside to outside the company because thats where your users and partners are who create transactions which is how you monetize your network. to have an external focus you must have a community strategy. cherish your community design architecture to regulate participation troublemakers are a fact of life but control points in the analytics can detect them and prevent them driving others away. put another way promote positive interactions among partners in a multisided market. design your business model carefully around all your customers dont introduce too many adverts for instance. that killed myspace stone dead because it spoiled the user experience. and dont introduce too many onerous steps to access the platform and services it will repel users. resource orchestration not control in the platform world not everything is counted nor appears on the balance sheet. resources need orchestration as the aim is to provide a market for excess capacity that previously could not be traded. the question is how can we lower transaction costs so that the capacity weve got sitting on our balance sheet can find a market its not about locking everything down its about opening it up which is a completely different mindset. and finally parker says move from focusing just on serving that one end customerand bargaining against a supply chain instead look at the customer as an inside user and treat them as such. thinking in terms of a dollar in the supply sides pocket is one less in yours doesnt work it becomes meaningless. rather invest in their ability to produce because that drives transactions which is how you monetize your network. geoffrey g. parker is professor thayer school engineering dartmouth college and director master of engineering management program and research fellow mit initiative on the digital economy. he is the coauthor of platform revolution with marshall w. van alstyne and sangeet paul choudary. he has spoken at two tm forum digital leadership bearingpoint summits. find out more about tm forums platform strategy its work on platform architecture and its open api program then join in and help shape telecoms future. you should start with an idea not a company. when its just an idea or project the stakes are lower and youre more willing to entertain outlandishsounding but potentially huge ideas. the best way to start a company is to build interesting projects. on the other hand when you have a company that you feel pressure to commit to an idea too quickly. if its just a project you can spend more time finding something great to work on which is importantif the startup really works youll probably be working on it for a very long time. have at least one technical founder on the team i. e. someone who can build whatever the company is going to build. in general prefer a fastgrowing market to a large but slowgrowing one especially if you have conviction the fastgrowing market is going to be important but others dismiss it as unimportant. the best startup ideas are the ones that seem like bad ideas but are good ideas. make something people want. you can screw up most other things if you get this right if you dont nothing else will save you. once youve shifted from interesting project to company mode be decisive and act quickly. instead of thinking about making a decision over the course of week think about making it in an hour and getting it done in the next hour. become formidable. also become toughthe road ahead is going to be painful and make you doubt yourself many many times. figure out a way to get your product in front of users. start manually read this. paulgraham. com ds. html listen to what your users tell you improve your product and then listen again. keep doing this until youve made something some users love one of the many brilliant paul buchheit observations is that its better to build something a small number of users love than something a lot of users like. dont deceive yourself about whether or not your users actually love your product. keep your burn rate very low until youre sure youve built something people love. the easiest way to do this is hire slowly. have a strategy. most people dont. occasionally take a little bit of time to think about how youre executing against your strategy. specifically remember that someday you need to have a monopoly in the peter thiel sense. read this before you raise money. com fr. html. learn to ask for what you want. ignore what the press says about you especially if its complimentary. generate revenue early in the life of your company. hire the best people you can. however much time youre spending on this its probably not enough. give a lot of equity to your employees and have very high expectations. smart effective people are critical to success. read this. samaltman. com howtohire. fire people quickly when you make hiring mistakes. dont work with people you dont have a good feeling aboutthis goes for employees and cofounders partners investors etc. figure out a way to get users at scale i. e. bite the bullet and learn how sales and marketing work. incidentally while it is currently in fashion spending more than the lifetime value of your users to acquire them is not an acceptable strategy. obsess about your growth rate and never stop. the company will build what the ceo measures. if you ever catch yourself saying were not really focused on growth right now think very carefully about the possibility youre focused on the wrong thing. also dont let yourself be deceived by vanity metrics. eventually the company needs to evolve to become a mission that everyone but especially the founders are exceptionally dedicated to. the missionaries vs. mercenaries soundbite is overused but true. dont waste your time on stuff that doesnt matter i. e. things other than building your product talking to your users growing etc. . in general avoid the kind of stuff that might be in a movie about running a startupmeeting with lawyers and accountants going to lots of conferences grabbing coffee with people sitting in lots of meetings etc. become a delaware c corp use clerky or any wellknown silicon valley law firm and then get back to work on your product. focus intensely on the things that do matter. every day figure out what the or most important things for you to do are. do those and ignore other distractions. be a relentless execution machine. do what it takes and dont make up excuses. learn to manage people. make sure your employees are happy. dont ignore this. in addition to building a great product if you want to be really successful you also have to build a great company. so think a lot about your culture. dont underestimate the importance of personal connections. ignore acquisition interest until you are sure you want to sell. dont check the market. there is an alternate universe somewhere full of companies that would have been great if they could have just avoided this one mistake. unfortunately in this universe theyre all dead. work really hard. everyone wants a secret to success other than this if it exists i havent found it yet. keep doing this for years. what is organizational culture email culture definition improving your organizations culture to grow and innovate. in merriam webster named culture the word of the year. merriamwebster chose culture by analyzing their most popular words and which experienced the biggest spike in lookups during the year. culture is a word that we seem to be relying on more and more. it allows us to identify and isolate an idea issue or group with seriousness peter sokolowski editoratlarge for merriamwebster. why defining organizational culture is important now more than ever. culture definition is the starting point for any meaningful improvement in your corporate culture. organizational culture is becoming an essential conversation for three reasons the rapid pace of change demands that organizations cultivate change as a capability not an event. culture is the fuel source of that capability. emerging values among younger generations are creating a movement to make the meaning and experience of work as important as results and effort. this is impacting all people not just millennials. the work contract is no longer simply time in exchange for a paycheck. many smart talented people are choosing to work for lower pay or extend their job search rather than work for a company with no heart. a conscious effort to build a great workplace culture grounded in modern habits pays off in attracting and retaining better talent and ensures more dedication while they work for you. the fundamental metaphor of business indicates how we view and treat people. it is not longer pc to view people as machines that can be switched on off or measured precisely the industrial age metaphor for people. or human capital fte numbers on a spreadsheet that produces roi or a costcutting opportunity. these metaphors and measures have value in a forprofit business. but they do nothing to tap the inherent people power and human potential in your business. the question we should be asking is how should the conversation about corporate culture and culture definition in your organization be at the forefront of strategic conversations in board rooms lunchrooms and even home offices human beings need connection purpose meaning freedom and growth to thrive. yet the human qualities of freethinking possibilityseeking empathy collaboration are largely stifled and undervalued in corporate environments. ironically efficiency and productivity outcomes are more possible when you build the proper structure to cultivate and harness these very qualities. whatever you sell or deliver its a good bet your marketing department is working hard to inspire and sell to your customers by tapping their innate desire for connection purpose meaning freedom. and yet most of your employees would say those qualities are not welcomed or rewarded effectively inside their company. most of my work these days is helping leaders understand why and how the authentic and messy and unpredictable people stuff is not a barrier to roi but a cornerstone of high performance. learning how to befriend and harness the energy tapped through aligning peoples communication work habits and unique organizations mission with your customer needs. this is corporate culture. and it is the revolution in business that is key to ongoing and sustainable innovation growth and performance. because right now employees at every level of most organizations are confused and disheartened by the lack of alignment. tired of spending half of their life in a workplace environment that is confusing and stressful just to feed their family. most leaders at the top have given little or no thought to what its really like to be a director or manager in your organization to receive two emails in the same hour one about a planned company layoff and one saying were hiring in your department. neither of which the person knew about who is now being asked to explain it to people who got the same email in her department. to motivate teams in meaningful ways when leaders are preaching excitedly about maximizing ebitda and stock price an abstraction that doesnt benefit them their family or community directly. nor do they have a clue what it measures or how their effort impact it. trying to rally the troops below them by translating a high level saysnothing vision into clear priorities for their people while vps and above do not act or speak with any alignment on those priorities which seem to change monthly. these are commonly cited examples from interviews i have done as part of my cultural assessment work based on realworld conversations with people in companies just like yours. this confusion is the norm in most companies today. the term corporate culture and the rising attention on the term is about companies trying to make sense of what has gone wrong in our state of work. in years of helping leaders and companies define and evolve their organizational culture i can say with confidence now is the time to explore a meaningful definition of culture in your organization as a basis to reinvent the way work is done and what it means. not as this years initiative but as a way to align with the growing movement that is reshaping the fundamental contract of worker and employer. get on the wave or be crushed by it. your choice. what is organizational culture the definition of culture according to merriamwebster the beliefs customs arts etc. of a particular society group place or time a particular society that has its own beliefs ways of life art etc. a way of thinking behaving or working that exists in a place or organization such as a business is culture definition the answer or the question in business the word culture has become synonymous with this is a good or bad place to work especially in the minds of millennials. references to corporate culture have begun to make their way into tv and movie scripts with the subtle nuance if you dont have a corporate culture i like im outta here. a new yorker article said this about the culture word of the year if words are tools for thinking then in culture has been used to think about the parts of our society that function poorly. that may even be a sign in a way of an improvement in our culture. if our increasingly analytical sociological way of thinking about culture is helping us to improve the culture thats a positive development. confusion over its evolving meaning is a good reason to look up culture in the dictionary but so is an interest in understanding the world and making it better. this is the crux of the matter the increasing desire for culture definition in business signals a quest for meaning and making things better more than a particular answer to what is culture. people of all generations not just millennials are demanding an opportunity to evolve expand and improve the quality of their life and work. whether they say it out loud or not the desire grows stronger every year. the word culture is the collective expression of this quest. work largely determines the quality of our life. your people are increasingly reluctant to sacrifice one for the other. this is not simply a demand leaders please fix this. it is a collective and conscious cry how can we work together to shift and evolve our workplaces from this fragile state of confusion imbalance constant hyperdrive what is culture to a business when you define culture you send a message here we care about people and we get it. in reality culture definition is only the beginning. fostering a corporate culture that drives growth high performance and collaborative teamwork requires more walk than talk. clear intention and patience. the will power to develop and foster the alignment needed through a vision that matters more than bigger bonuses for executives and is communicated frequently. daily work that is not overshadowed by constant bureaucratic and political minutae. real opportunities for employees to grow in their career even if its not climbing the ladder. promoting and empowering people who live the values and work hard. beware promoting that top performer who leaves a trail of dead bodies. you do big damage to your culture with this move. easier said than done widespread adoption of new habits that build an open collaborative corporate culture. but it pays off big in improving your ability to recruit talent. a stronger connection and loyalty to your organization. greater willingness to accept ownership and responsibility. the subtle and important key is this do your employees believe in what youre selling to your customers be the brand for your employees that you want your customers to become loyal to and watch the magic happen. culture definition examples in great companies the best companies invest in their culture as their brand. it all begins with changing how they think about talk with and treat people. here are a few examples google a company that is synonymous with culture googles current culture definition challenge is to maintain a unifying culture as they grow and spread out geographically a quest that will require effort along with a willingness to allow subcultures to develop while maintaining the core spirit. rei culture definition at rei is who we hire who we are. with a mission to equip both customers and employees for the outdoors to have fun and promote stewardship of the environment hiring and empowering employees who can immerse themselves in reis culture is what makes it unique. rei says its employees give life to their purpose and they give full credit to employees for their success. employees can submit a proposal in the popular challenge grants to get equipment for an outdoor adventure they find challenging. when employees of a company are aligned with its values and are fully immersed in what the organization sells ie customers and employees are similar the culture propels itself forward almost on its own. twitter culture definition at twitter at its core is smart dedicated people. employees love working at twitter. like many hitech companies they offer culture perks like free meals yoga meetings on the roof. but more than anything tweeps twitter employees will say i love working with other smart people. the hiring theme again. workers rave about being part of a company that is doing something that matters in the world and there is a sense that no one leaves until the work gets done. adobe adobes culture definition might be summed up as empowerment. adobe products are synonymous with creativity and only through the avoidance of micromanaging are the people who create those products truly free to create. they value how adobes corporate culture is consistently shaping itself to trust employees to do their best. adobe does not use performance ratings to establish employee capabilities feeling it inhibits creativity and harms how teams work. managers take on the role of a coach letting employees set goals and determine how they should be assessed. what is culture to a ceo president or executive team why are executives increasingly concerned with corporate culture simple culture issues are impacting their bottom line. this is more than a culture definition problem. the forces of technology and globalization demand increasingly complex strategies with more rigorous analysis and data while you maintain the constant ability to adjust adapt and coursecorrect. this is a peoplecentered task we can build a computer that analyzes the best choice in a highrisk decision. but robots will never create a movement that inspires people to camp overnight to buy the latest apple device. in the movie martian in which matt damon plays an astronaut stranded on mars the character mark watney launches himself iron man style into space in hopes to intercept with the captain of his mother ship or be cast into space forever. the ship is a mere kilometers away yet traveling at high speed. he has no steering mechanism only the complex mathematic calculations of the team onboard the ship and the fierce intention of his captain and himself to make it happen. your people are like mark watney in your business often feeling untethered from your company leaders vision and strategies but desiring connection. the paradox of succeeding at rapidchangeuponchange while maintaining a stabilizing mission and connection can only be solved by fully optimizing both scientific dedicated effort and heart. we see this in practical ways in business strategic planning and change management models are becoming more dynamic and responsive to the market as are tactics to create alignment with shifting priorities and problem solving. its tough enough to align people to constant shifts let alone or. organizational culture in todays global arena is about combining the smarts and heart capability to adapt and realign teams quickly while maintaining the essence of harmony and connection with one another. executives who understand this alchemy increase the odds of success in rapidchange highrisk conditions when the conditions themselves are unknown and uncertain. in years of assessing corporate cultures i have come to see culture change work as addressing this paradox. building specific and new habits to accomplish two important goals align with the desire for meaning and provide a stabilizing force in the face of constant change. this is why i do not believe in one cookiecutter culture for a global organization people need consistency and unifying tribal identity while being encouraged to express their local culture and relationships in ways that honor their roots and make sense to them. sometimes i tell my clients a communication overhaul is the primary work needed in organizations today. employee communication are rarely aligned with these two goals. they need to be shorter more frequent thematic personal and facetoface. just as communicating to your customers had to evolve so does communicating with your internal customers ie employees. your culture revolution what do you choose the rewarding but sometimes messy complicated work of building a modern corporate culture is not possible inside the paradigm of a stressedout bottomlineonly world view. it takes leadership courage and focus. neuroscience research has proven that our brain flooded with adrenaline does not create under stress. stress triggers one thing take cover or run. but most companies today run on adrenalinefueled productivity as their default state. changing this toxic and nonsustainable condition means choosing the health and wellbeing of your people as a priority. not only as the right thing to do signalling a new more humancentered metaphor for business but as a strategy that directly impacts your roi. as the quality of soil determines the quality of your crop the wellbeing of your people will increasingly affect your growth and profit. which means not only defining the corporate culture you want and need to attract great employees and customers but spending time resources and energy building it. the revolution surrounding corporate cultures is real and practical. companies are filled with people wanting it and hoping their ceo will support a redesign the human experience of work. the task ahead is making it the gold standard in every company. as with any revolution in a society the society chooses to either reinvent itself or the revolution reinvents you. heres hoping you choose to be out in front of your culture revolution. reference articles time. com merriam webster names its word of the year. dec entrepreneur examples of companies with fantastic cultures. entrepreneur. com article new yorker the meaning of culture december. newyorker. com books joshuarothman meaningculture lisa jackson corporate culture leadership and culture organizational culture leave a comment cancel replyyes. just yes. one of the aspects of design that i must admit to loving and i am really happy is finally catching on is the aspect of modern simplicity. open floor plans for houses simple and sleek lines on sports cars and products. the iphone really started the trend with a simple yet sleek phone. no need for flip phones with gimmicks. personally i believe design should be simple and clean and if you want to make it stand out you should add a subtle change. below is an infographic by martin eriksson that perfectly describes a product managers position. as a product manager i need to be business minded understand the user experience and understand technology. a good product manager understands the aspects of all three circles and must understand how to merge them together. whats important for you to understand is that product managers dont need to be the best. theres a reason that youre not one whole circle. another interpretation of the infographic is that you bind them all together. you are the meeting point of all three aspects of your company you are the intersection in the road. force all three aspects to look at each other and understand that other aspects exist. dont let the circles drift apart but keep them together. our latest research on growth in software and onlineservices companies has some surprising findings about the benefits and risks of buying growth. downloadable resourcesopen interactive popuparticle pdf kb acquisitions done well can be a powerful tool to accelerate revenue growth. and pushing for gains is vital in software and online services where the rate of growth typically determines whether a company thrives survives or dies. while percent revenue growth is enviable in most industries companies in software and online services are expected to deliver numbers that are markedly higher. in fact weve found that software and onlineservices companies with revenue that grows by more than percent annually when they hit million in sales are eight times more likely to eventually pass billion in annual revenue than players with revenue that grows by less than percent annually. however acquisitions done episodically can also stifle growth. our research shows that acquiring companies infrequently may actually disrupt organic growth and slow overall revenue gains. we examined the acquisition activity of software and onlineservices companies that surpassed million in annual revenue and identified three lessons lowvolume acquisition programs disrupt growth highvolume programs accelerate growth. the software and onlineservices companies whose revenue grew most rapidly had highvolume acquisition programs. successful acquisition programs complement organic growth. among software and onlineservices companies that reached billion in annual revenue acquisition efforts preserved or accelerated organic growth. these companies completed more deals squeezed more growth out of each deal and managed to preserve high organic growth while investing energy in finding and incorporating acquisitions. successful acquisitions align with growth strategy. companies that accelerate revenue growth through acquisitions dont treat deals as an opportunistic event to capture cost synergies. they use several different deal archetypesall linked to their fundamental growth strategy. grow fast or die slowunderstanding the unique management challenges facing fastgrowing technology companies. see the collectionlowvolume acquisition programs disrupt growth highvolume programs accelerate growthsome software companies rocket past billion in annual revenue on organic growth alone. yet for those that seek to supplement everyday growth with acquisitions its not enough to check the box with a deal here and there. our research found that companies making less than one acquisition per year on average have worse revenue growth than those that did no deals. by contrast companies undertaking one to two deals a year had double the revenue growth of those doing no deals and companies acquiring two or more companies a year averaged significantly higher growth exhibit. exhibit we strive to provide individuals with disabilities equal access to our website. if you would like information about this content we will be happy to work with you. please email us at. comsuccessful acquisition programs complement organic growththe acquisition programs of companies that achieved billion in annual revenue delivered organic growth superior to that of companies falling short of the billion mark. as exhibit shows companies that reached billion in revenue had nearly twice as much growth from acquisitions as companies that did not but they saw times the organicgrowth contribution. successful companies drove results in three areas preserving or enhancing business momentum or organic growth executing more deals and translating each deal into more revenue growth. exhibit we strive to provide individuals with disabilities equal access to our website. if you would like information about this content we will be happy to work with you. please email us at. comlets look at each element. first and most important a company needs to preserve its business momentum. software and onlineservices companies that used acquisitions and successfully moved from million in annual revenue to billion were able to maintain rapid organicrevenue growth percent a year companies that did not reach the billion mark achieved just percent organicrevenue growth each year. acquisition activity can distract management and direct resources away from the existing business or it can preserve and even enhance growth in the core business. successful companies achieve the latter. second companies that reached billion in annual revenue undertook more deals each year. deals on average than those that did not. deals. we found that executing more deals delivered an additional seven percentage points of revenue growth annually. the bottom line is that executing a successful acquisition program is not as simple as buying more companies. it requires a systematic disciplined approach to deal discovery and execution that is improved over time. trying to jam more deals through a broken process will only compromise organic growth and the chance of success. third companies that get to billion in annual revenue can achieve more growth per deala compound annual growth rate of percent compared with percent for companies that do not reach this threshold. although a difference of two percentage points is small the ability to capture more growth from deals adds up when combined with a greater deal volume. this means the acquisition programs of successful companies deliver annual revenue growth of percent on average almost twice the percent of companies that are unable to reach the billion level. so do the fastestgrowing software and onlineservices companies use acquisitions yes. when we examined the fastestgrowing percent of companies we found that they all used acquisitionsand that they all had highvolume acquisition programs delivered the greatest average excess total return to shareholders and achieved annual revenue growth of more than percent exhibit. exhibit we strive to provide individuals with disabilities equal access to our website. if you would like information about this content we will be happy to work with you. please email us at. comour conclusion is that acquisition programs should be robust and they must build on the core business. its the combination of organic and inorganic growth that allows companies to survive and delivers excess total return to shareholders. successful acquisitions align with growth strategyit is no surprise that most deals in software and online services appear to be aligned with growth rather than costs. yet this does not mean that all deals are the same. we identified four common deal archetypes and rationales aligned with accelerating growth audience expansion or consolidation. once a company has established a successful offering growth can be supplemented by acquiring a target with an applicable audience or customer base. this can improve the scale of the offering allow the company to reach new geographies enhance the credibility of a product or service and improve the value proposition for products that benefit from greater market share. one example of this is the combination of several audiences for travel websites expedia hotels. com hotwire and tripadvisor under the umbrella of iac. however executing acquisitions poorly may drive away acquired customers and yield diminishing returns. in such transactions its important to pay attention to both existing customers and new customer opportunities. gap fills. a company may use acquisitions to fill gaps in its core product or service offering. for example salesforce. coms acquisition of jigsaw allowed it to automate the way it acquired and maintained businesscontact data and to improve the value proposition of its core customerrelationshipmanagement offering. a deep technical understanding is critical to ensure that the gap is successfully addressed by the targets offering or intellectual property and that the target can be successfully integrated with the acquirers existing solutions. speed to adjacency. companies looking beyond their core offering for growth typically pursue opportunities in adjacent markets. in the fastpaced realm of software and online services organic entry may be too slow. in such cases companies often use acquisitions to speed their entry. synopsys for example acquired coverity to expand into the softwaretesting market. adobe oracle and sap are serial adjacency acquirers. the risk of this type of acquisition is that the adjacent market or target company is not as attractive as expected or that the company does not have what it takes to win in the new market after the acquisition. to address this companies need to understand their core differentiators and where they have the familiarity to succeed. acquihire. these deals are focused on securing distinctive talent that can enhance the acquirers core offering and the offerings of the target usually are discontinued. when facebook bought friendfeed for instance the deal brought on board several talented employees including bret taylor who went on to become facebooks chief technology officer. the central risks with this type of acquisition are not surprising the inability to retain employees of the company that has been acquired and the potential for the acquiring company to overestimate the individual capabilities of the acquired company. would you like to learn more about our high tech practice visit our high tech practice pagethese archetypes illustrate the ways that acquisitions can accelerate revenue growth. moreover they show how opportunities could align with an acquirers growth strategy rather than emanating from a targets current market price a shared industry or the opportunity to reduce overhead. putting it all togethersoftware and onlineservices companies thinking of doing one acquisition per year are actually better served doing no deals. to drive the type of growth required to thrive in the software and onlineservices sector acquisitions must be done regularly and treated as a capability that fuels both organic and inorganic growth. companies that successfully accelerate from million to billion in annual revenue typically undertake more than two deals per year use acquisitions to accelerate their core organic growth and deliberately align the deal rationale with their most pressing growth challenges. in short what matters is not whether you do acquisitions. what counts is how you do them. why lead generation is important for your business august learn digital marketing lead generation important for businesses mathieu picard anyleads mathieu picard anyleads this article on the importance of sales and marketing lead generation is a guest contribution by mathieu picard ceo of anyleads. what is lead generation infrastructure within the scope of direct marketing strategy lead generation describes the process of stimulating and capturing interest in a product or service for the purpose of increasing sales. for most companies finding potential customers and successfully reaching them is a long and difficult process. lead generation combines the marketing actions businesses can take to create and build interest in a product or service to generate new customers. technologically based marketing actions that rely on computer programs database collection and the internet to find and contact potential customers are the foundation of lead generation infrastructure solutions. however lead generation can also mean direct contact through cold calling or events where sales representatives rouse interest and convert prospective customers into viable leads through face to face interactions. lead generation infrastructures are an example of saas software as a service which provides an api to automate the process of generating leads. the final result is a qualified and organized database of prospects leads that your business can use to target your message. automation can simplify the direct marketing actions of your business and allow you to focus your attention on less repetitive tasks. using an email finder guarantees you a sustainable stream of prospects to contact every day and automated contact forms then allow you to identify which customers are the best to present your final sales pitch to. as these technological processes change the marketing landscape many marketing traditionalists may not have heard of these new approaches. cuttingedge technology is making it possible to expand your customer base multiply your growth and do so in a way that differentiates you from your competition. what are the advantages there are many different strategic directions to go with digital and direct marketing options. lead generation infrastructure which automates the tedious processes involved makes your outbound marketing significantly more efficient at an affordable price. when it comes to budget concerns email marketing is by far the cheapest direct marketing method. although it has a low conversion rate it has the highest return on investment available. there are many ways to increase the conversion rate and when you consider the expanded capabilities possible with lead generation saas its clear that this option gives you the most bang for your buck email marketing is an effective way to enhance traffic visibility and sales which is why this approach boasts the highest roi compared to all other much more expensive methods. the use of a lead generation infrastructure is a good way to guarantee a reliable and continuous stream of new leads for your company make the best use of your valuable time by automating the most tedious and repetitive tasks how does it work the advanced search features available within the lead generation infrastructures allows you to compile mass lists of contacts that fit your unique requirements. the large lists are highly targeted so with each entry you increase your chances of contacting interested customers and converting them into viable leads. you can build massive precisely targeted lists in only a few days mathieu picard lead generation infrastructure is also very useful for b b businesses who wish to target their prospects through their professional email addresses. most of the time the relevant information emails names job titles and position etc is gathered through data available on social media networks but by searching the name of the company or the domain of its website the software can also find employee emails to include in the database. trustworthy lead generation infrastructure anyleads is a good example of a lead generation infrastructure that provides trustworthy services to customers all over the world. anyleads uses backend technology to mine data and compile highly targeted databases of contacts and an integrated api crawls extracts and verifies the email addresses of your prospects. additionally an integrated crm allows you to launch drip mailing campaigns with powerful retargeting and funnel generation. if saveforlater service pocket had a spirit animal itd be the american field ant. like the insect the startup supports that which is many times its own size. it serves its million registered users who have saved over billion articles and videos for later with a team of just employees. at the center of this supernatural ability and efficiency is founder and ceo nate weiner. pocket just celebrated its eighth birthday but for roughly half of the companys existence weiner was the sole employee. on his own he built and designed pockets website api iphone app and ipad app and fielded support requests from his first few million users. pocket is proof that size of team doesnt equal scale of impact. in this exclusive interview weiner explains why scaling a company doesnt always mean increasing headcount and burn. instead he shares the two ways startups can grow a business without a marketing or sales team and the incredible advantages of staying small for focus culture and trust. any earlystage company that seeks to punch above its weight can benefit from weiners exceptional in more ways than one experience with growth. nearly four years into pocket weiner decided to raise money to turn his onemanshow into a team. how many people would he need for someone who built the first version of pocket on his own in a night five people seemed like a lot. i asked myself what the hell would five people do weiner says. evernote which had made a bid to buy pocket in its early early days employed around people when i first started talking to them. i couldnt fathom having a team that size. what would they work on whys a team of ten working on what one person can do today pocket is in the process of moving into a new office to fit its now quickly growing team targeted at two dozen by yearend so its clear that success has shifted weiners perspective at least a little. still he maintains how pockets sustained smaller size in its early years was formative to its longstanding winning streak. and even now he doesnt want any sudden moves to lose or dilute the very traits that got the company where it is today focus and trust. below he shares how keeping a team small can be an invaluable guiding principle. force focus with a smaller headcount either real or simulated management mantras harp on the importance of focus and staying nimble for startups. but they tend to leave practitioners to will clarity and agility into reality. like any other startup pocket struggles with staying focused while prioritizing the many inbound or upcoming opportunities its always juggling. unlike most companies it views its small headcount as a means not a limitation to focus. for the first quarter of this year pocket had over projects on the docket across the entire company that is more projects than employees. focus is an enduring battle for a company of any size says weiner. if we were a larger company we mightve been tempted to elect a lead for each project allocate engineers and push ahead on all fronts. but our limited resources prompt frequent reflection and rigorous prioritization. pocket only completed onefourth of its projects slated for the first quarter. with so much in motion the team felt dispersed and directionless. it didnt feel good says weiner. then we got word of a marquee project mozilla wanted to build pocket into every version of firefox that people downloaded. that integration caused the entire company to focus on one thing. it took me back to the early days when we were just five people and how we attacked one goal at a time with all of us behind it. we rallied together to do the integration quickly all while furthering pockets mission of giving more people access to the content they want for later enjoyment. if you lead a small startup ask yourself restrictions aside would i put the entire company behind this project if the answer is yes find a way to do it. with everyone on the firefox project we moved so much faster the quality of the product was way better and people were amped up says weiner. then we went on to the next project with more momentum coordination and energy than if we decided to divide and conquer our list of projects. if youre over employees find a way to manufacture the same scenario. think back to the time when your company could fit into one room and ask yourself if youd put everyone on the project if you could. if the answer is yes consider deploying more reinforcements from your current team. even at or even people you should really just be focused on that one thing that needs to happen right now says weiner. i understand that bigger companies cannot shift the same way startups can but its keeping that instinct sharp and active thats key says weiner. personally i know i need that focus forced on me. the more people you add the easier it is to keep doing whats not critically important. with a smaller team its very hard not to stay focused. you constantly need to avoid doing what you want to do in the future for that which has to be done now. for companies of any size weiner suggests putting the full team on the most critical project every quarter. over the next days whats going to be the project that makes the difference lets just make sure that we hit that goal the best we can and then we can move onto the next project. pocket is now shortening its project runway to under days especially for engineering sprints. i can tell you where were going six months from now but we try to focus a month at a time. a small team enables us to operate this way says weiner. condense your culture but expand your skillset at larger companies entire roles or departments are charged with defining and preserving culture in order to absorb hundreds of new hires. as pockets sole employee for its early years weiner was both the only creator and custodian of its culture. while he knew he eventually needed more than one person to scale the company he didnt want to lose the drive and grit that had landed him early success. with a small headcount weiner was able to keep pockets culture concentrated during its formative years. this was possible because its culture wasnt a fuzzy concept it meant trust scrappiness and ownership. weiner had years to discover and refine founderculture fit with the same rigor that most apply to find productmarket fit for their companies. after all theres a saying in tech that of your eventual culture is your founder literally their personality traits. think stews not salads when it comes to company culture. start by letting a few choice ingredients simmer together. then taste. youll have a better palate for what it delivers and lacks than if you toss it all together from the start. this hardearned clarity allows weiner to confidently hire in his image while gradually growing the team and diversifying its skillset. as with all startups at some point you realize you cant do it all to completion or to a high standard. for example i really needed help with design said weiner. nikki our head of design was the first hire. i had the engineering and product experience but she brought the design chops that we needed to truly make a great product. she changed the black and yellow color scheme that had somehow looked good to me at the time to what pocket looks like today. its been vital to bring on people who own and value their part of pocket as much as i have from the start. theyve made it better than i could have. keeping pocket around employees has allowed weiner to not only personally filter for those he can trust but also assemble a group capable of making decisions and operating without him. with a small team those bonds and common world view form more quickly without complex hierarchies in the way. as a technical founder engineering was the hardest area to let go says weiner. early on though i remember when it finally clicked we had an issue with our backend. i suggested an idea on how to resolve it. the team noted it and then went to another room to sort it out. the solution that they came up with was way better than mine. it was a great moment to realize how it was okay to let go and that it often turns out better when theres acknowledged and mutual trust. a small startup can use its size to force focus and better preserve culture as it grows but these benefits are just the fuel for the work the team has to do. its output the actual product can also scale without increasing headcount but only through two channels. the only way a product can grow from a team of our size is if your platform carries you or your users carry you says weiner. the advantage of being small is that you find ways to make people outside of your walls part of your company. heres how pocket develops ships and publicizes its product through its platform and with the help of its loyal users heres how your platform can carry you in the early days weiner made it his goal to embed pocket in every corner of the web. the intent was to create an amazing consumption experience for as many people as possible across all of their devices which meant the app itself had to be extremely flexible and scalable. without a sales or marketing team pocket made its app as simple and straightforward for other companies to learn about and integrate its service which in turn has exponentially grown pockets users. to date the company has tallied over integrations among them firefox twitter flipboard and kobo. with strong partner feedback and enthusiasm pocket now seeks to grow as fast as it can through its platform. weiner sees tons of opportunities but theres more out there than pocket could possibly build with its current team even if headcount doubled instantly. as a small fastgrowing company you can go on a hiring spree or lean on your platform. if you opt for the latter heres weiners advice make it dead simple and lowlift. the team at pocket relies on this question to make decisions how can we make it simpler for all involved for example its now commonplace for startups to share their apis but pocket takes it a step further. yes the apis that we build on as a company are the exact same apis we give to every partner publicly. but can you help them with just a few lines of code asks weiner. years ago weiner took on this challenge with the help of sharekit an open source software development kit sdk that people could drop into their ios apps. i tried to make it literally one line of code for people to add pocket and other popular services to what they were building. says weiner. companies could drop the line of code in and their app could share to any service like twitter tumblr or facebook. at the time if you had to write the code from scratch on your own it was weeks of work to set these things up. but i still wanted to make it simpler. this is the same philosophy that guides pocket today. as much as possible make it truly plugandplay for others who want to build in your product. if twitter comes to us and wants to integrate pocket weve lost if it takes them a month to do it says weiner. theyre simply not going to do it. and i dont blame them. not requiring people to reinvent the wheel means first making sure what youre working with is as simple as a wheel. if it is theyll use it and there wont be much reinventing needed. structure integration as selfhelp. pockets platform mentality has been a huge part of its growth. allowing companies to build on its platform easily has been the first step but scale happens when they can do so independently. weve completed thousands of integrations without any business development and the overwhelming majority without any support says weiner. simplicity has made it easy for partners to integrate pocket but the startups size has made it a necessity. the deals with kobo and firefox only happened because we made it easy for them to selfserve says weiner. at first kobo asked us to integrate pocket in two months. if our team of a dozen people at the time had to build it from scratch it would have never happened. but we said heres our api. kobo was able to integrate pocket within days. for integration the ideal is when companies can incorporate pocket without ever reaching out to weiner or his team. pocket has found that its users typically request other apps to integrate the saveforlater service which is what prompts new companies to learn about pocket. weve heard a few times that the number one feature request for apps is integrating pocket. when companies look into it theyre happy to check the request off the list on their own says weiner. thats how facebook paper integrated pocket. i had nothing to do with that i just found out one day. woo big partners tenaciously with your platform then keep them with transparency. simple platform integration and selfservice doesnt mean that startups should go on autopilot. pocket stays on the radar of strategic companies that it believes will benefit from its product. for example the first time that pocket reached out to firefox it was still known as readitlater. we started as a firefox extension and i was one of the extension app reviewers early on says weiner. weve built the type of culture where we share our story data and updates early and along the way so companies from major content services to device manufacturers understand what its like to be our partner from the beginning. we want them to truly know and be able to point to proof that were ready when they are. one day it clicked and mozilla called. its now fully integrated pocket as the saveforlater service for its firefox browser. remember getting an app or company on your platform marks the end of a deal but the beginning of an official working relationship. for pocket channeling generous transparency is the way it retains its partners and continues to improve its product with such a small team. we try to share knowledge as much as possible. we dont try to hide anything. we tell apple and google what were seeing in the market when theyre working on their share sheets says weiner. as a result its made it really easy for us to actually start getting these deals done as people want to solve their saveforlater needs. they know who to turn to. the takeaway for lean startups is to construct a platform that can enable external parties to operate as extensions of your team sales engineering and business intelligence. in the case of pocket its platform is simple to integrate built for selfservice and brings with it an increasingly rich set of data that when aggregated benefits all its partnering companies. whats next is leveraging our user base. while we have a hundreds of companies integrating pocket we have millions of users says weiner. the question now is how can we serve them and also help them carry us even further heres how your users can carry you think back to what it was like to watch television before dvr or streaming. or what it felt like to hail a cab without uber says weiner. whenever you find a place that feels old people get really passionate about it because the new way has become so core to their experience and going back to the old way just feels broken. with pocket i think weve hit upon a very different way of using content on the web. we have users that when they go into another app where they cant save to pocket say is this an ancient time whats going on here small startups who have users expressing this degree of passion should not miss the opportunity to direct that energy from expression into creation for the benefit of the company. for pocket thats meant getting users to lend a helping hand to product development. here are the two ways that pockets users are supporting its next generation of products. shift your beta channel from delivery to conversation to cocreation. when pocket started its release philosophy was about pushing out an airtight product to its users. the team would perfect every pixel before launch. at the beginning pocket was a very waterfalllike product says weiner. we would deliver big releases about once a year. wed go underground for six months and build something big and then wed launch it. the releases were well received but we suspected we should have been getting more out of our process. yet after productmarket fit perfect is not only the enemy of good but of growth. pocket is known as a very welldesigned experience and app says weiner. while we want to keep that up our development debates shifted from every nitpicking detail to how we open up and solve growth problems. as a small team at a growing company we needed to tap into our users as collaborators not just as beneficiaries. there comes a point for every startup when youve got to decide between perfection and progression. the first is a stable characteristic and the second is a dynamic conversation. choose wisely. off the bat that means having more frequent interactions with users. getting them involved in product development isnt just about opening the floodgates it requires restructuring the way your team works. pocket has moved to a faster release cycle to have more touchpoints with its users. were moving to a much faster cadence. our sprints are a few weeks long and were closing in on a five to six week release cycle. for the team its a far cry and a cultural shift from trying to get everything perfect before the public sees it. now we know there are bugs in what we ship but now we arent the only ones squashing them. this approach was especially critical to pocket. a prototype that the company uses internally. the team estimated that a full publicready version would take nine months to put out. we were delighted by the beta and didnt want our limitations to delay our users from experiencing it too says weiner. so we decided to break it all apart. we laid out the five to six different releases thatd strategically get us there over a six week release cycle. so far its felt good to get it out there even if its piece by piece. were getting feedback and signal back really fast. we listen respond and incorporate it all. we also ship at the same time so users know theyre being heard theyre like our remote team. if you have one arrow and you shoot and miss youre screwed. if you can continually reaim until you get to the target that gives you a much better look at the bullseye. used correctly a beta channel can give your team great feedback and allow your users to direct the product. even if you havent hired youll feel like you have more manpower to hit milestones and additional insights into fastmoving markets. after our last fundraise we set a lot of important milestones especially around getting additions to the platform built out says weiner. we know that we want to get them out there to validate and prove them in the market. the sooner that we can do that the better. the beta channels the way forward for pocket and the way in for our users. use surveys to learn from the pms among your users. from the beginning weiner was struck by the enthusiasm and loyalty of pocket users. our users love this product. im always blown away by how avid and vocal our fans can be says weiner. we get emails all the time from people writing in to say hey. i dont have a bug. i just wanted to tell you guys that youre awesome. to fully engage this type of fanbase use tools to solicit and leverage their support. pocket has used surveys to not only collect feedback but also to directly guide its product roadmap. were actually just reviewing responses from a survey that we put out in our beta version of pocket says weiner. our support team is having conversations with people directly inside the product. weve actually received more feedback than ever through this channel. many startups use surveys as an engagement tool and casually treat the results as a byproduct. dont just listen really hear whats being said and how. i always remind the team to look past the basic gist of the results says weiner. when users give you feedback on an obstacle they almost always give you an idea on how to solve it. they dont just say i hate that this is the case. if you keep reading theyll often include you should let me pin this or swipe it away. it may not be the solution in the end but it will better define the challenge which gets you closer to a solution. for example pocket now has two tabs my list and recommendations at the top of the app. results from the survey indicated that people wanted to swipe between the two lists but that many users couldnt reach their finger all the way to the top. that was insightful but it was also just one solution says weiner. the other option may be a standard ui convention on ios where you can bring the tab bar down to the bottom. all of sudden now thats within reach of your thumb. but then you also have to think about facebook or other places where the new functionality may not be discoverable for a lot of users and many will have the same problem. if you jump to the first second or tenth solution youre missing the point of fully grasping the need of implementing swipeable tabs. lastly when running surveys keep in mind these three tips from weiner segment your users into buckets. pocket has divided its user base into casual core and inactive. the team makes sure to send surveys to a group within each category to ensure theyre learning from a representative sample. lower the bar for participation. pocket makes sure its surveys are easy to complete which means they are less than five minutes long. oftentimes theyre even shorter. for the most part the team prefers releasing twoquestions surveys frequently than a tenquestion survey released occasionally. drop in surveys at multiple junctures. pocket continues to experiment with where and how it surveys users. like most apps theres a send feedback button in beta for pocket that is a passive channel. or an email will capture those who may not open the app every day. also after five minutes of inactivity in the app pocket may pop up with a live chat and ask hey. everything ok using tools to engage users like surveys and beta channels and creating easy lowlift ways for partners to extend and build on your platform are ways to scale your company without growing your headcount. thats how pocket continues to deliver despite its size. however now that pockets partners and users are becoming more active in shaping the future theyre also influencing the startups definition of success. back before we raised money i kept saying that save for later is a systemlevel feature that needs to built into browsers and operating systems. people told me that would never happen. years later were built into firefox says weiner. our strategy has been to first create a way to capture anything you find and want to save regardless of the app or service and get embedded with the partners to make that universal. then its to create an amazing set of tools to consume content. this has given us incredible insights on information consumption and soon how to solve its challenges. theres always a next goal but its the same question that drives us how do we help people get all the great stuff thats out there the key for pocket or any startup is to tackle a colossal and ambitious goal with leverage. right now we really want to get our platform to scale even more and reach as many people as possible says weiner. we want them to not only enjoy what we create but help us build it. if for each pocket employee theres a hundred partners and millions of users to help well have the muscle to make it all happen. how to distinguish between your product roadmap product strategy and product vision cliff gilley by cliff gilley of the clever pm while you might own the product your products vision should be coming from the top of the house. it should be driving everything in your organization not just product development. sales operations technology all of it should be working toward a common vision. so if the vision isnt the responsibility of the product team what is lets use a hypothetical example a space travel company to break this down the vision for the company is affordable and repeatable space travel. you do not own the vision but you should have a clear sense of what it is as you help carry it out. if the vision isnt clear enough to build a strategy and roadmap around it you should diplomatically communicate that. the product strategy is to build vehicles capable of going to space multiple times along with the supporting infrastructure to make that possible. it might be a single rocketship or it could be a fleet full of spaceships with various capabilities. you have some ownership over strategy. the product roadmap is for each spaceship the highlevel steps required to build a spaceship that meets the requirements of the product strategy which in turn is fulfilling the company vision. you own this. so what do they look like there are no absolutes on the perfect format for a product vision product strategy or product roadmap but here are some general guidelines product vision a clear product vision keeps your product roadmap on track your vision should max out at one to two sentences just enough to clearly and concisely convey your highlevel purpose. this should be aspirational not just descriptive. the vision statement is not an opportunity to use creative colorful language to describe the operations or activities of the organization says shaun spearmon of kotter international. it should describe the resultant experience or outcome. too many organizations get caught up explaining how they work. instead focus on the subsequent outcomes after the work is done. here are a few examples of great vision statements linkedin to connect the worlds professionals to make them more productive and successful. warby parker offer designer eyewear at a revolutionary price while leading the way for sociallyconscious businesses. amazon our vision is to be earths most customer centric company to build a place where people can come to find and discover anything they might want to buy online. you should be proud of your vision statement and happy not embarrassed to share it with customers. it should resonate with you and your fellow employees and not just sound good to investors. your companys vision statement should be something youre proud to share with the public. tweet this i find that a vision focused on creating a benefit for others provides a particularly deep motivation and a lasting inspiration. it guides me when i am feeling doubtful much more than a money or selfcentric vision can says roman pichler of pichler consulting. i find that people excel because they believe that they are doing something meaningful and beneficial. product strategy product strategies should be a little more specific than the vision but not so specific that youre delving into the details of implementation. your product strategy should cover the fundamentals who are we trying to serve what problem s are we trying to address how are we planning to address the problem s how are we going to monetize our product youve now defined a target market created a value proposition and laid the groundwork for a business plan. you can certainly be a little more specific but trying to nail down the details at this level can create assumptions that lead your product roadmaps and product releases down narrowlydefined paths that may limit your options and miss opportunities in the future. your product strategy should be more specific than your product vision but light on details. tweet this when we are building products we have a threshold of knowledge. we cannot start on day and exactly plan to reach our vision. there are too many unknowns and variables says melissa perri of produxlabs. instead we set goals along the way then remove obstacles through experimentation until we reach our vision. product roadmap weve written plenty about product roadmaps at uservoice so instead of recreating the wheel here i will direct you to a couple of our favorites on this subject how to prepare an executivelevel product roadmap presentation how to hold an interactive product roadmapping meeting in the context of this piece the fundamental idea to grasp is that roadmaps are tactical. theyre a set of plans and instructions that get you close to achieving the goals laid out in your product strategy. theyre the only of these three items that should dictate specific behavior or tasks. keep teams on the same page while your company may not be trying to go to space at least not literally you likely have some ambitious goals at the corporate level. your product team then needs to figure out the strategy that will work toward those goals and the individual product managers will define their product roadmaps to build products supporting that strategy. in order for a product team to actually be empowered and act with any meaningful degree of autonomy the team must have a deep understanding of the broader context says marty cagan of the silicon valley product group. the more product teams you have the more essential it is to have this unifying vision and strategy in order for each team to be able to make good choices. that is why its incredibly important to have a clear product strategy when your organization has more than one product manager. while a lone wolf may always know why things are happening when its a lot murkier when you add some cooks to the kitchen. when you know exactly where youre going its much easier to get there says john mansour of proficientz. for product managers specifically they no longer have to go it alone for their products and compete with one another for resources. its a divideandconquer scenario across the product management team. keep product strategy changes to a minimum one way you know youre operating a strategic level things arent actually changing very often. product vision specifies the what and why of the product while product strategy elaborates how to realize the vision with a specific approach and provides a roadmap showing a timeline for executing the strategy. product vision is the guiding north star and does not change much if at all says satish thatte of versionone. once the product strategy is prepared it may undergo adjustments and refinements over a period of time but not too frequently. unlike the vision and the strategy product roadmaps will change somewhat frequently as market intelligence comes in users request new capabilities and technical considerations are factored in. as the roadmap is a tactical plan these changes should be welcomed as long as its not for the release your engineering team is already working on as it shows youre being responsive to the changing dynamics of your industry. be positive about the negatives while most people think of product strategy as everything your company will build to achieve its goals just as important are all of the things you wont be building. providing a solid product strategy will help focus activities establish a direct link between the product and the company strategy and clearly identify to everyone involved the highlevel steps currently being taken to achieve the vision says greg geracie of actuation consulting adding that it not only defines the boundaries of the actions you intend to take to achieve the desired future state perhaps most importantly it also articulates those activities that lie outside of the scope of the strategy that will not be pursued. defining the scope is essential to creating an achievable strategy and this is vital downstream information to the specific roadmaps being created and implemented. tie your product roadmap to your product strategy product roadmap should align with your product strategy the tiered system of defining goals and planning products enables a series of checkpoints for everything that uses your organizations precious resources. if what youre doing on the roadmap doesnt directly tie back to something specific in the strategy then you have to question why youre doing it at all. tweet this everything on your product roadmap should tie back to your product strategy. a helpful exercise is to actually go through every item and see how it fits. for example lets say your strategy is to aggregate the best glutenfree recipes on the planet make it easy to discover and share them with others and create a critical mass of users so the platform can be monetized with premium content and product sales. if youre putting a recipe ranking feature into your roadmap great it connects with strategic goal. but lets say you propose a calorie counter. sounds like a good idea yes think again. at present your calorie counter doesnt link with any of your three strategic goals so you need to put that on hold unless you want to proactively change your strategy. whether youre colorcoding your roadmap labeling features accordingly or just running a quick comparison check you can now be sure that everything youre building is strategic. classification types of mergers classification types of mergers mergers and acquisitions are the ways in which businesses get combined. they can be little intricate to understand all the legal and tax issues surrounding the deals. mergers and acquisitions are two different business combinations although they are thought of as a generic term. let us look at the types of mergers and acquisitions the ways the companies can do business combinations. table of contents show definition of merger a merger is a business transaction where an acquiring company takeovers the target company as a whole. this results in only one company remaining after the merger. the smaller target company loses its existence and becomes a part of the bigger acquiring company. basis of classifications types of mergers mergers can be differentiated into various types depending on the following integration form mergers can be classified depending on how both the companies physically combine themselves in the transaction to form one entity. relatedness of business activities mergers can be classified depending on how the business activities of both companies relate to each other. the economic function and the purpose of the transaction define the types of mergers. types of merger classification by the form of integration the mergers can be classified as follows on the basis of forms of integration statutory merger a statutory merger is one in which all the assets and liabilities of the smaller company is acquired by the bigger acquiring company. as a result the smaller target company loses its existence as a separate entity. company a company b company a subsidiary merger a subsidiary merger is one in which the target company becomes a subsidiary of the bigger acquiring company. this happens because the target company may have a known brand or a strong image which would make sense for the acquiring company to retain. company a company b company a company b consolidation merger a consolidation merger is one in which both the companies lose their identity as separate entities and become a part of a bigger new company. this is generally the case with both the companies being of the same size. company a company b company c classification on the basis of relatedness of the business activities the mergers can be classified as follows on the basis of relatedness of the business activities horizontal merger a merger that happens between companies belonging to the same industry. the companies have businesses in the same space and are generally competitors to each other. a horizontal merger is a feature of an industry which consists of a large number of small firms fragmented industry. the level of competition is high and the postmerger synergies and gains are much higher for companies in such industries. the motivation behind such merger is economies of scale and control of bigger market share. vertical merger a vertical merger is a merger between companies that produce different goods or offer different services for one common finished product. the companies operate at different levels in the supply chain of the same industry. the motivation behind such mergers is cost efficiency operational efficiency increased margins and more control over the production or the distribution process. there are two types of vertical mergers backward integration a vertical integration where a company acquires the suppliers of its raw materials. forward integration a vertical integration where a company acquires the distribution channels of its products. conglomerate merger a merger between companies that operate in completely different and unrelated industries. a pure conglomerate merger is between companies with totally nothing in common. a mixed conglomerate merger is between companies looking for a market or product extensions. market extension mergers a merger between companies that have same products to offer but the markets are different. the reason behind such mergers is access to bigger markets and an increase in client base. product extension mergers a merger between companies that have different but related products but the markets are same. such mergers allow the companies to bundle their product offerings and approach more consumers. other classifications besides the above classifications there are other characteristics of the deals also that may further define the types of mergers complementary or supplementary merger a complementary merger aims at compensating for some limitation of the acquiring company. the acquisition of target company may be an attempt to strengthen a process or enter a new market. a supplementary merger is one in which the target company further strengthens the acquiring company. the target may be similar to the acquiring company in this case. hostile or friendly merger a merger can be hostile or friendly depending on the approval of its directors. if the board of directors and the managers of the company are against the merger it is a hostile merger. if the merger is approved by them it is a friendly merger. arms length merger this type of a merger is a merger that is approved both by the disinterested directors and the disinterested stockholders. strategic merger a merger of a target company with an aim of strategic holding over a longer term. an acquirer may pay a premium to target in this case. conclusion a business combination gets complex not only with the legal issues but also with the type of a merger. a merger can vary according to the way companies come together or their economic functions. it is important to understand the type of merger to appreciate the intricacies involved. hiring the single most important skill as a founder october in boston founder friday posted by moritz plassnig moritz plassnig todays post comes from moritz plassnig founder and ceo of codeship techstars class. the longer im involved in codeship the company i cofounded the more other founders i mentor the more im convinced that people and a great team is the lifeblood of a fast growing startup. i would even go so far as to say that people are the foundation of every organization big or small hightech startup or huge corporate juggernaut. but the startup world is unique in its constraints and also in its opportunities and thus the emphasis on building a great team is more important at a startup than in any other organization. theres no such thing as overnight success as much as countless books and movies try to portray wellknown entrepreneurs as geniuses. success is the product of a variety of factors hard work as much as great and unique skills the perfect timing and elements outside your control such as luck. the more you as a founder ceo or leader can remove the latter from the equation the better off you and your team will be. building a great culture hiring skilled individuals and forming an amazing team out of it allows you to make your own luck. its a lot of hard work but its within your control. investors invest in people not ideas as much as you like your idea and believe that the market conditions are perfect the truth is that most companies will change and adapt their product down the road. the founding vision of slack was to build a game instagram started out as a foursquarelike checkin app called burbn and you all know the story of twitter being a side product of a podcast platform. what all those companies had in common was a strong team that was able to take new ideas and build new products until they were the success they are today. the people working at those companies were able to adapt and change and build a great product. maybe your company wont pivot completely but you will learn adapt and improve as you gather feedback from your customers. and the more feedback you incorporate the better you get. the ability to do that to listen to the small feedback between the lines knowing when to stay stubborn and when to adapt is one of the most important and hardest to learn skills for a founder. great investors angels and vcs know that and despite the importance of a potential big market an important enough to be solved problem the team is the key reason why they will eventually invest. early on every hire is crucial summarizing a successful startup in one sentence is simple great people build great products get great customers and eventually will build a great company. as simple as it sounds doing it right is incredibly difficult. you will face a lot of challenges in the early days of your company and the more successful you are the bigger your team gets the harder it gets to keep your team members aligned and your company on track. the one thing that you should keep in mind is that at the end of the day everything good or bad is caused by the people in your team. empowering your team and getting out of the way is key but its only possible if you hire the right people. small companies dont have the luxury of making a lot of mistakes. you are always resource constrained both money and people and despite not having enough you have to build a great product nail the distribution and find a viable business model. this can all work out great if you did your job well and found great coworkers but it can also go sideways instantly if you did a poor job. nothing is more dangerous for an earlystage startup than one bad hire one person who isnt a culture fit or who is simply not good enough at their job. even if you together resolve the situation fast you will get distracted most probably wont build a great product during that time and lose a lot of time. bad hiring is one of the most risky and costly mistakes you can make in a startup. great people attract great people nothing is more attractive for talented job seeker than a team full of really skilled coworkers. despite all the potential problems of a bad hire the huge upside if you do it right is tremendous. with every great person that you can convince to join your team your team gets better and it will also get easier to attract the next person. hiring is a selffulfilling prophecy and therefore gets simpler over time. the hard part obviously is to get everything started. how to hire the first employee if you dont have an amazing team that everybody is talking about solving this chickenegg problem is crucial for getting your company off the ground. the good news is that you already have a team even before your first hire. you and your cofounder s are already a team which is one of a countless long list of reasons why you shouldnt found a company alone. you found your first follower you did the hard first step already. maybe you even managed to get a small investment or you convinced somebody to be your advisor. you will have a team long before you have hired for first employee although it might not feel like that. culture is more than the sum of every team member even if you hire only smart individuals despite their respective skill sets you wont automatically create a highperforming team. great teams are generally a group of amazing individuals mixed together in the right way. the glue between the outstanding senior engineer and the young up and coming designer the magic that makes sales work well with product is having the right culture. culture is not about free food nice xmas parties or other perks. its about shared values and beliefs the common ground of every discussion and the bigger reason why you are all working on the same idea. great culture makes you win great culture will help tremendously to survive tough times. having a great culture will simply make you feel that its easy to build a successful company. the importance of culture heavily impacts your hiring. every single person you bring on in the early days changes your culture in a good or bad way. figuring out if somebody is a culture fit if somebody is the right person for your team instead of finding the best person is crucial. although culture is defined by your team by every single individual you still have to work hard on it and you wont get it automatically by hiring right. your job as a leader is to facilitate discussions offer a vision and set the guard rails. nothing defines culture more than actions and your team cant take any actions if you dont provide the guidance they need. cultural fit is really important for every new hire but its only working if your culture is great. that wont be the case all the time. you will face times where your culture starts getting sideways where you cant be as proud of your company as you wish you could be. especially in those moments its important that you critically challenge the status quo. whats great whats broken if your culture is broken and youre blindly hiring with an emphasis of culture fit your culture will actually get worse. you cant use your culture as a safeguard if its broken. as much as great people a great culture attract more great people and can result in a better culture as much as it can go into the opposite direction. be aware of your own bias. hiring is a skill and it should be your most important one hiring is not magic its not luck its a skill. some people are better with it from their first job on others not. maybe you are but if not you can learn it and even if you do great right now you should still work hard every day to improve. the faster you figure out if somebody fits into your team the faster you can evaluate the skills of an applicant the better its for you and your company. even more important in todays hiring market the better you are in convincing people to join your team in selling your vision the better people will eventually work for you. again it gets easier over time to more great people are working for you. its important to understand that its not just about you interviewing a candidate. you have to design a hiring process that involves your team that gives the candidate a lot of opportunity to evaluate you as well. every growing company faced the same challenge and you can learn a lot from the best practises of the industry from companies that did a great job with hiring and also from companies who failed. luckily now more than ever startups are willing to share their journey starting with small insights and some tactical advice as far as being completely transparent like buffer. take the opportunity and learn from those companies and their failures and successes. dont forget that you are always hiring. it doesnt matter if you are doing a job interview in your office or if you are at a friends party. you are always leaving an impression if you want or not. maybe you arent looking for anybody right now but you surely will in the future. or at your next job or company. making sure that you always have a big pool of great people to work with will set you up for success and since its all about the people it will make the difference between being successful or not. always be hiring. porters five forces of competitive position analysis what is it framework theory porters five forces of competitive position analysis were developed in by michael e porter of harvard business school as a simple framework for assessing and evaluating the competitive strength and position of a business organisation. this theory is based on the concept that there are five forces that determine the competitive intensity and attractiveness of a market. porters five forces help to identify where power lies in a business situation. this is useful both in understanding the strength of an organisations current competitive position and the strength of a position that an organisation may look to move into. strategic analysts often use porters five forces to understand whether new products or services are potentially profitable. by understanding where power lies the theory can also be used to identify areas of strength to improve weaknesses and to avoid mistakes. porters five forces of competitive position analysis the five forces are. supplier power. an assessment of how easy it is for suppliers to drive up prices. this is driven by the number of suppliers of each essential input uniqueness of their product or service relative size and strength of the supplier and cost of switching from one supplier to another. . buyer power. an assessment of how easy it is for buyers to drive prices down. this is driven by the number of buyers in the market importance of each individual buyer to the organisation and cost to the buyer of switching from one supplier to another. if a business has just a few powerful buyers they are often able to dictate terms. . competitive rivalry. the main driver is the number and capability of competitors in the market. many competitors offering undifferentiated products and services will reduce market attractiveness. . threat of substitution. where close substitute products exist in a market it increases the likelihood of customers switching to alternatives in response to price increases. this reduces both the power of suppliers and the attractiveness of the market. . threat of new entry. profitable markets attract new entrants which erodes profitability. unless incumbents have strong and durable barriers to entry for example patents economies of scale capital requirements or government policies then profitability will decline to a competitive rate. arguably regulation taxation and trade policies make government a sixth force for many industries. what benefits does porters five forces analysis provide five forces analysis helps organisations to understand the factors affecting profitability in a specific industry and can help to inform decisions relating to whether to enter a specific industry whether to increase capacity in a specific industry and developing competitive strategies. actions to take dos actions to avoid donts use this model where there are at least three competitors in the market consider the impact that government has or may have on the industry consider the industry lifecycle stage earlier stages will be more turbulent consider the dynamic changing characteristics of the industry avoid using the model for an individual firm it is designed for use on an industry basis in practice porters five forces of competitive position analysis analysis of the indian business environment download full case study in the june issue of financial management magazine the five forces model was applied to the emerging indian business environment in comparison with more developed markets. the analysis found that factors such as state protectionism and a lack of infrastructure are greater barriers to entry in india than they are in more developed nations where market forces are more powerful. the analysis highlighted many issues affecting competition in emerging economies and compared them to those that are more prevalent in more developed markets. one factor that could play a crucial role in india is public opinion which exerts a considerable influence on the government. a good example of this is a campaign by local retailers against walmart who feel that the arrival of the us retail giant could put them out of business. walmart has made huge investments in india but is having to find ways around stringent regulations that prevent it from doing things as basic as putting its brand name on stores. related and similar practices pest analysis additional resources for porters five forces quiz how well do you know porters five forces tools strategic planning tools tool balanced scorecard tool strategy mapping article porters five forces understanding competitive forces to maximize profitability article porters five forces a model for industry analysis topics strategy and innovationinsights for improving product development cycle success avatar pat fleck twitter facebook linkedin in my article last month innovate one step at a time i discussed how the process of innovation easily derails during difficult economic times such as todays. when creating software and digital products innovation typically spans many months and it can become disrupted by unobservable or frequently changing business conditions that make it extremely difficult to form and evaluate viable options. when people cant see where theyre going they typically just stop. this is tragic with respect to innovation since it is innovation that propels business and society forward. to help explain why tough times make it difficult to keep innovating i introduced air force colonel john boyds decisionmaking model called the ooda loop observation observing your landscape identifying the variables orientation making sense of the variables formulating options decision analyzing the options making a decision action executing the decision source mindsim corporation boyds articulation through the ooda loop model of how decisions are influenced and madeand of how to disrupt an opponents loopis very helpful in understanding the different reasons for what is commonly called analysis paralysis. the gist of the model is that if one cannot make clear observations and form viable options then the ability to make sound decisions and carry them out effectively crumbles. some tough love dont accept the notion of failure managing just about any process in tough times is difficult. nonetheless i believe we have become much too accepting of product failure. excuses come easily since statistically only product idea out of emerges into a new product. it would therefore seem ok to fail since the odds were against success all along. clearly this is flawed thinking that simply perpetuates failure. products fail for many different reasons. the roots of failure can be found at any point in the product development cycle. failures happen because information is overlooked taken for granted misinterpreted or acted upon inappropriately or with insufficient resources. every one of these causes of failure can be tied directly into a failing in one of the ooda loop steps. properly navigating the product development cycle always comes down to obtaining solid information accurately interpreting it developing viable options and forming the right conclusions to facilitate ones own actions or to favorably influence those of another. analysis paralysis is the obvious sign that the product development cycle is off track. unfortunately by the time th effects of analysis paralysis catch an executives eye the situation is usually too far out of control to easily rectify. try to be preemptive. perform a midday check with y ourself every day. ask yourself am i moving forward decisively and effectively if you are not make solving that problem your top priority. instead of focusing this article on the product development cycle from the perspective of how to create a great product it will focus on ways by which product managers can increase their success in navigating the cycle itself. a great product follows naturally by extension. analyzing the product development cycle the graphic above illustrates the product development cycle as we typically refer to it at cooper. other practitioners and academics have their own variations but our version is indicative of the core elements that are widely recognized. the cycle begins with an impetus the discovery of a new technology with or without clarity in advance as to how it might be commercializeda great market opportunity identified through some form of market research an obvious need to retire an existing product that has been eclipsed by the competition etc. the ideation phase focuses on stating the problem and setting a general direction including identifying plausible options. concept development involves converting one or more options into a highlevel product concept describing the products purpose its general use and its value proposition. product definition clarifies product requirements which are the baselevel functional elements necessary for the product to deliver its intended results. ideally ethnographic research and customer modeling inform and support the identification of the key functional elements. this eliminates the waste associated with developing unimportant or qualitycompromising features by showing everyone the solid reasons for incorporating the key functions. moving forward into product design scenarios are modeled and design principles are applied to generate exact specifications which are not unlike an architects blueprintthey provide all the detail necessary to begin construction. construction is followed by the product launch in which the product is released for consumption. once a product has been in the market for a while a variety of techniques can be used to assess if the product is measuring up to expectations or if opportunities exist to take the product in new directions. executives and product managers can then determine whether to stand pat perform minor design refinements commence a major renovation or move forward to ideation beginning the cycle for a new product. the ability to determine the right time to make the leap from an old product to a new one is an important skill. design consultancies can help at this stage using their diagnostic and research capabilities. decisionmaking within the product development cycle following each step in the product development cycle through the product design phase a decision is made to move forward to the next step terminate the project or move back to the previous step to bolster research and to iterate previous conceptual or design work. the cycle is deliberately staged to permit verification of the work to date to validate previous assumptions and to potentially avoid disaster by rejecting a flawed concept before additional resources are committed. thus these decision points are import risk management safety valves. although carefully traversing decision points can be tedious doing so ensures the integrity of the product and the wellbeing of the company. note that ooda loop theory can be applied to any decision point and can be very helpful in gaining advantage over someone else whose loop is intersecting yours. a relevant example of such a loop owner would be an executive with approval authority over your project. you can boost the success of your project by helping that executive negotiate his or her loop. to do so you should provide clear information viable options and reasonable projections of the likely results of exercising those options. lets take a closer look at the final go iterate terminate decision which is made following the product design phase. it is implied that if all stages through product design are traversed successfully then no further go nogo decisions are needed. through the end of product design all work has been limited to paper or other inexpensive media. the enormous expense of actual construction has not yet begun. by addressing all concerns before entering product development the risk of expensive and timeconsuming iteration secondguessing and changes of course are eliminated. hence this final decision point is arguably the most important since it represents the last chance to avoid spending the lions share of the cycle budget on a flawed product. insights now that weve examined the product development cycle lets move from observation into analysis and draw some strategic conclusions. . plan to avoid analysis paralysis. although it is possible to iterate at each step in the product development cycle doing so contradicts the objective of moving quickly to save time and money and to preserve executive commitment. in ooda loop terms the worstcase scenario is when any step particularly the early steps in the product development cycle degenerate into a war of attrition in which time money and patience are exhausted in an endless loop of iteration and indecision. so the big question is how can one obtain assurance that observations are clear and comprehensive that acquired information is properly interpreted and that the best options are formulated to ensure sound decisions at every critical juncture to obtain such assurance product managers must examine the composition of their teams to ensure that all essential skill sets are present. additionally all internal and external team members should be involved throughout the entire cycle especially in the early stages of ideation and concept development which are about charting a course unifying vision generating project participant enthusiasm and winning initial executive buyin. moreover a collaborative approach should be followed to establish consensus and to make sure all opportunities and constraints are properly identified before the course is set. . its not always easy to know what step of the product development cycle youre in. considering whether to retire an existing product or begin developing a new one is a critical juncture. probably of coopers involvement with companies is at this important decision point. companies sometimes conclude that they need a new product when in fact their circumstances really warrant a renovation of their existing product. obviously the converse can also be true. it is imperative to bring wellhoned skills in requirements gathering and analysis to bear at this decision pointthe observation and orientation steps in the ooda loop. at the highest level of triage product opportunities tend to fall into two categories making the right product or making the product right. making the right product relates to properly defining the very essence of the product i. e. the purpose it is intended to serve and the functionality required to best provide that service. making the product right relates to properly initially designing or later improving the usability of a correctly defined product. it is important to know which challenge you face since this will impact how you build your work plan and how you structure your project team. determining functionality requires ethnographic and other research methods coupled with design methods that enable a smooth transition from needs to concepts to requirements to detailed design. optimizing usability on the other hand requires diagnostic skills coupled with a surgical ability to apply very specific design principles to very specific problems. when addressing usability issues some user and domain research is helpful but much less is required than when designing a new product. generally speaking the broader the usability problem the more research will be required. for example more research may be needed when reexamining an entire navigation schema for a broadly used ebrokerage site than when refining a singleuser interface for a network management application. when usability problems are both abundant and serious the line between design refinement and new product design becomes blurred. . avoid fuzzy terms and clearly articulate your objectives and constraints. the words new and innovative have their places at the philosophical or conceptual level but they are very loaded terms when it comes to establishing work plans. both terms imply that ideation and conceptualization are needed meaning that a heavy application of research methods will likely be required. in fact depending on a product managers frame of reference achieving his or her definition of new or innovative may actually involve making only minor usability refinements which typically require little research. clearly avoiding confusing terms is a great help when performing the ooda loop processes of observation and orientation. in order to form viable options its very important early on to clearly identify your time financial and technical constraints. you must avoid fuzzy terms and be direct about just how much of a clean slate you want to begin with how much of your legacy youre able and willing to jettison and how many previous notions you want to challenge about your customers and the purpose of your product. this will determine if youre really going to develop a new product or whether youll just be refining what you already have. the distinction is important since there is no point spending valuable resources questioning the fundamental nature of a product in concept development and or product definition if constraints dictate that any ideas that would emerge from those stages would not be actionable anyway. . it takes persuasion as well as great product ideas to keep advancing through the cycle. as noted previously there are many decision points in the product development cycle. typically these critical decisions are made by an executive who is not particularly intimate with the project yet who cares deeply about managing risk and properly allocating resources across multiple initiatives. in ooda loop terms the executives approval represents a separate loop. drawing from ooda loop theory when someone else has the upper hand yet is favorably inclined toward you you win them over through education and coaching i. e. making it easy for them to provide a favorable decision. hence focusing on communicating status recommending obviously sensible options and clarifying next steps allows an executive to complete his or her loop with favorable results as quickly as possible. product managers can become consumed with detailed product creation tasks but they need to periodically remind themselves that their project is just one of many potential options to the corporation and that their project becomes more discretionary the higher up one must go to obtain approval. for example a milliondollar project may seem like an absolutely critical corporate initiative to an individual product manager but to the ceo of his or her corporation it is just one of many options vying for attention and financial resources many of which will never be granted approval to go fullcycle. therefore the product manager needs to be persuasive which means that he or she must build a project team with all the skills needed to communicate project vision status results and next steps. this requires diverse expert skills from day which may need to be supplemented by outside help. . build separate teams for new product innovation and existing product improvement. the ooda loop reminds us that one can only observe and interpret so much at once. this helps us understand why product managers frequently feel conflicted. when focused on daytoday customer satisfaction problems they often go into overload and miss longterm opportunities. issues concerning extending the life of a product or improving its usability to alleviate customer complaints for example can become allconsuming. hence organizations should give serious consideration to formally separating new product development from the process of refining existing products. by doing so parallel cycles can be kept in motion for purposes of maintaining user satisfaction and market share during the lengthy period of time needed to run the circuit on a new product cycle. the financial benefits of not losing customers between releases are obvious. it is important to recognize that product managers are as much in the risk management business as they are in the new products business. accordingly they should not underestimate the complexity of the product development cycle. realistic expectations should be set and constraints should be clearly communicated. product teams should be prepared to win executive approval every step of the way in order to keep moving forward in the cycle. design consultancies should not be overlooked as valuable resources in providing both decisionsupport tools and expert product recommendations. brilliant ideas are great but brilliant results are better. top musthave skills for startup success evoma top musthave skills for startup success take a look at the evoma. com home page. its a resource page for businesses divided into sections thinking of starting a business starting a business running a business and growing a business. each category requires a different set of skills and has its own set of business challenges. but what are the skills you need as a startup founder to go from the first section to the last one how do you get from thinking about starting a business to a stage where you are figuring out how to grow a successful business this is the topic of this post the musthave skills you need for startup success. its a top list for sure but more importantly its a logical sequence of the skills you need. . conceptualise ideas and turn them into commercially viable products. everyone has ideas but the hard part is converting them into a real business with a commercially viable product. by far the easiest and best way to test the viability of your idea as a business is to come up with a product demonstration and try to raise funding for it. bankers and venture capitalists are shrewd enough to tell you if your idea and product is any good. . build and test your product service. you dont necessarily need to have the skills to build a demonstration piece by yourself if you have an idea. you can make do with the skill to find interested collaborators on startup and entrepreneur communities such as quirky that can help you do it. . raise funding to go to market. we have a huge collection of posts on the skills you need to have to raise startup funding. . hiring skills to bring the skills you dont have to your startup. startup founders are expected to do everything from opening the office to product demonstration sales and accounting. but if you dont have certain skills that are required or the time to do it all by yourself you need to have the hiring skills to find people who can do it for you. this may be a partner or partners. you can also hire employees if you have raised enough funding to cover their wages. . inspire your employees to walk on coals for you. a startup that has enough cash is by definition not a startup anymore. you have to burn cash and do it all a lot faster than your established competitors to grow. there are never enough employees to handle all aspects of a newly launched startup so you need to inspire your employees to work all hours of the day and night to get things done. if you cant do this and your employees are clocking in and out on time then your startup has a less than stelllar chance of growing into a success. . selling skills to get your first customers. as a new startup the only sales team you have is you. you have to learn to sell your own product and find customers willing to pay for it. once you have that first set of customers it becomes easier to build on that and you can even start hiring salespeople. . networking skills to meet clients and business partners. startup founders especially in metros like bangalore mumbai and chennai have to rely on their networking skills at events and conferences in order to connect with large new clients and business partners. if you dont attend these events on a weekly basis you risk being left out of the startup ecosystem that works so well to help startups grow faster than in smaller cities. . delegating skills to get work done on time. your startup is your entire life and you are expected to work every waking hour. but even thats not enough if you try to do it all by yourself. get partners hire talent and learn to delegate in order to get the work done on time. . scale your startup to reach new markets. once you have built a sustainable business that is generating a steady stream of revenue the next step is to scale your startup to reach other markets. this may be another branch in your own city or expansion to other cities. if you are an internet or tech startup with a virtual product its time to start scaling your marketing and sales team. . skill to start all over again if you fail. the skills mentioned above are surely necessary for growing a startup from an idea to a success story. but the one last thing you need above all else is the ability to get up and start all over again if you fail. the most successful startup founders are usually serial entrepreneurs who have tried many times before. sometimes they fail but they start learning how to win. thats the most essential skill you need to have for startup success. what is conversion rate optimization cro and why is it important the invesp blog conversion rate optimization blog toggle navigation home blog about guest post guidelines contact toggle navigation four ways to share shares linkedin twitter facebook chapter what is conversion rate optimization cro and why is it important written by ayat shukairy shares linkedin twitter facebook editor note we highly recommend that you implement the different ideas in this blog post through ab testing. use the guide to conduct ab testing and figure out which of these ideas in the article works for your website visitors and which dont. download invesps the essentials of multivariate ab testing now to start your testing program on the right foot. instant boost in online sales and revenue after changing the color of a button. this type of quote may be misleading about the true magical powers of website conversion rate optimization. the right cro methodology can provide incredible results but youll be just as amazed by the process to achieve these results through the factbased datadriven scientific approach we will bring to you in this guide. lets start with basic definitions for online conversion rate and conversion rate optimization. what is online conversion rate conversion rate is the percentage of visitors who complete a desired action on a website during a time period. any valuable engagement your visitors make may count as a desired action as long as it fulfills your webpages goal. remember every page should have a primary goal. you can choose to measure the number of visitors who purchase a product sign up for a newsletter subscribe to a software hire a service download a free ebook fill out a contact us form answer a survey give a feedback take any action a page is designed to encourage. by measuring conversion rates you find out if your pages are persuading visitors to take the action you want them to take on the page. the higher the conversion rates the better your design and copy are reaching out to qualified prospects. there are many goals thus conversions rates that you can track on your website. if you are an ecommerce website your website conversion rate is the number of monthly orders your receive divided by the number of visitors that come to your website. at the same time each page on your website has at least two conversion rates if not more. lets take your product pages on an ecommerce website the goal from these pages it get visitors to click on the add to cart button. and of course the final goal is to get these visitors to place an order convert on the website. so product pages have two conversion goals micro conversion rate for product pages is total clicks on the add to cart button divided by the number of visitors who visit the product pages. macro conversion rate for product pages is total orders for the website divided by the number of visitors who visit the product pages. in numbers you need to determine a period and account for the total numbers of visitors and desired actions they took in this same period. lets say your ecommerce receives visitors in one month and processes orders in the same period. your website conversion rate. of those visitors only make it all the way to the product pages. of these visitors visitors click on the add to cart button. product pages micro conversion rate. product pages macro conversion rate the same concept applies if you are saas website. your website conversion rate is the total number of monthly subscriptions divided by the total website monthly visitors. the saas pricing page where you list the different plans for your product has two conversion rates saas pricing page micro conversion rate total number of visitors to click on the subscribe button on the page divided by the number of visitors who visit the pricing page. saas pricing page macro conversion rate total number of visitors who subscribe divided by the number of visitors who visit the pricing page. lets say that your saas website gets visitors per month and generates subscriptions. your website conversion rate. . of those visitors only make it to the pricing page and of these visitors click on the subscribe button. your pricing page conversion rate is. saas pricing page micro conversion rate. saas pricing page macro conversion rate what is conversion rate optimization conversion rate optimization is a marketing optimization process that follows a framework to increase the percentage of visitors who complete a websites goal. conversion optimization analyzes the behavior of visitors and focuses on what motivates a particular market segment to engage in a certain way with specific marketing elements. conversion rate optimization is focused on persuading more of your website visitors to take the desired action you want them to take on a webpage website or within a campaign. at a very high level the cro process involves conducting a heuristic evaluation for the site conducting qualitative research and user behavior analysis conducting quantitative research conducting competitive analysis prioritizing problem areas on the site and creating a conversion roadmap for your website what pages need to be fixed creating a testing hypothesis creating new designs based on the testing hypothesis conducting ab testing or multivariate testing analyzing the testing results as you read through the different chapters in this guide you will learn about each of these steps in depth. so what is conversion testing conversion testing is the process of conducting an ab or multivariate test to increase the website conversion rate. an iterative process by nature cro helps you in making assumptions about your website visitors and then testing these assumptions to measure how your market actually responds. as a longterm process cro achieves sustainable repeatable and consistent increases on conversion rates through researching testing and analyzing visitors behaviors on your website. a good cro program increases your sites revenue month to month reaching significant cumulative annual growth. the best part this result optimizes your current website traffic. more conversions without the need of increasing site traffic. the annual uplift in profits alone could should justify a cro program implementation. but conversion optimization goes beyond the metrics and profits. when performed correctly cro becomes a way of discovering more about your visitors and customers as well as your website and your company. a good program can give you precious insights to apply to other areas of your organization. cro is a new mindset. if you think you know everything about your customers then cro is not for you. cro is also not for you if you dont set the right expectations. dont expect to change the color of a button and instantly receive more orders forever. it is not going to happen overnight. you wont set up a test or two and immediately achieve a permanent monthly uplift. cro is a process to enable datadriven choices to increase conversions. no guesswork. no magic. cro is a culminating feature to your overall marketing strategy. summing up cro is a system to increase the percentage of visitors who take the desired actions of a webpage datadriven and focused on results researching testing and analyzing visitors behaviors on your website a way of discovering more about your visitors and customers a new mindset a longterm commitment cro is not guesswork magic for you if you think you know everything about your customers for you if you dont set the right expectations what is a longterm commitment in a cro program if longterm has been mentioned too many times already and started haunting your plans of increasing conversions check the short video below. youll understand that you may see initial uplifts but the longterm commitment to cro will help you continue to gain increases overtime never missing a beat with your visitors. in this video we talk about longterm commitment in cro programs during one of our webinars and provide a timeframe to kick start projects. video source how to run a successful conversion rate optimization program by invesp what is more important increasing website traffic or converting its existing traffic so you are looking for ways to improve the revenue your website brings in every month. it sounds all too familiar limited budget limited resources and a website that does not generate enough revenue. what marketing budgeting meeting hasnt suffered through figuring it all out but where does all that place cro in the hierarchy some things to consider if your online conversions are low conventional wisdom tells you to bring more people to your site. it is a numbers game. the more visitors your website has the greater the revenue it generates. companies that provide conversion optimization services would disagree with this premise. but just like many other realities online the truth is somewhere in between. though bringing more traffic works as well to improve your website revenue this chapter of our guide explains why converting current traffic is a better option and lists five reasons many online companies still neglect increasing website conversion rates. needing help to decide whether increasing traffic or site conversion rates is the best option to improve your bottom line at this point in your business this chapter will also explain the four rules of thumb to help you make the best decision. why bringing more traffic works there is no disputing the fact. assume your current site only converts of its traffic to customers or leads. if you are able to keep the same conversion rate when more potential customers visit your site doubling your current site traffic will double your revenue. at least that is the theory. you need to keep a couple of things in mind when trying to acquire new traffic. you must maintain the same quality of traffic when bringing new visitors to your website. if you just attract any traffic to your site you can severely lower your conversion rate. are you able to maintain the same quality traffic that will depend on what you are currently doing in terms of traffic generation. if you are already ranking in the top three for most of your key terms both organically and in paid acquiring new traffic may require your focus on possible broader new terms. in that case you run the risk of spending money in seo and ppc and not seeing immediate results from that investment lots of trial and error involved. how about bringing more social media visitors to the website would bringing in more visitors from social media channels help increase conversions on your site social media traffic is junk traffic. it simply does not convert you might have heard. social media brings a different type of traffic that represents lower conversion rates compared to other traffic sources. but it still is a relevant marketing commitment. social media users are surfing websites and interacting socially on these websites. they are not thinking about converting. when they click on your ad or post they are rarely in the mindset that allows them to convert. the browsing mindset does not make them less valuable. they are just in a different stage of the buying funnel. as valuable as social media is for your business in terms of effective sustainable and consistent increase in sales you should focus on an approach to convert current visitors not on bringing in more browsers. why converting current traffic is a better option invesp research indicates that of your site visitors are interested in your product or service. the remaining either landed on your website by mistake or are merely looking for information and not interested in converting. if of your visitors are interested in converting it is just a matter of persuading them to become actual customers instead of mere browsers. in traditional brickandmortar stores the primary focus is on converting current traffic. why increasing conversion rates for an offline store usually involves salesforce training incentives merchandising and store design. it would not make sense to suggest that the store should try to generate more foot traffic because sales are too low for the current levels of traffic. online the story is quite different. over the last fifteen years most online marketing has focused on increasing website traffic as opposed to converting existing traffic. that does not make it the right thing to do. and it actually remains as a perplexing paradox for the cro industry. as companies try to acquire new traffic and bring more visitors to their website they find themselves expanding their targeting. they either target untested new traffic sources or target more general terms in both cases they are driving more visitors to their website but they are doing so at the expense of the quality of these visitors. so as the traffic increases their conversion rate drops. reasons why converting current traffic is better than acquiring more traffic. learn more about yours visitors behavior. hypotheses and testings give you a better panorama about customers behavior on your page. . discover more about your customers. deeper than recognizing just the activities on one page you can develop insights on how to address customers needs in multiple touch points. . keep track of users behavior. you can gather important data on all stages of the buyers journey. . provide to customers what they want. from decluttered design to clear copy you can find how to offer the best experience to customers and visitors. . improve your website. with all the information you gather you can update your site. . position your brand on the market. strengthen your brand with sharp design effective copy and higher conversion rates. . get more qualified leads. reach the right prospects not random browsers. . spend less. to increase traffic you need to invest more money in your campaigns. . increase in profit. increase revenue with more conversions. . continue growing. the right cro approach can bring sustainable repeatable and consistent increases. so where should you start increase traffic or increase website conversion rates simple answer what has a better impact on your bottom line if you have the budget do both for maximum benefit and growth. however we are not going to leave you hanging. here are some good rules of thumb that you should consider st rule if your website landing page or campaign gets less than conversions per month you should focus on increasing your visitors. why is that as you see in the steps we outlined above conducting split testing ab testing is a critical step to determine if your new website designs increase conversion rates or not. with less than conversions a month you will not be able to conduct an effective split testing program. nd rule if your website landing page or campaign gets more than conversions but less than conversions per month you should start with a conversion rate optimization program. why is that because with that many conversions you will be able to start a b testing by introducing one to two challengers against the original design. rd rule if your website landing page or campaign gets more than conversions but less than conversions per month you should definitely focus on increasing your website conversion rate. why is that with more than conversions you are able to start a solid a b testing program introducing four to seven challengers against the original design. th rule if your website landing page or campaign gets more than conversions per month and you have not done any conversion optimization then you have made a huge mistake remember a whopping of your visitors come to your site with some sort of intent to purchase. youre missing out on a lot of convertible targeted traffic. why is that with more than conversions you are able to start a solid a b or mvt testing program. every month you do not focus on cro you are leaving money on the table. it is money that will never come back. as i wrote this article with the different recommendations one of our junior staff members came to ask me if the recommendations above are correct or not. i told him yes these are the recommendations we have been giving companies for over years. he says but that is not the industry standard. i ask why he says there are many of our competitors who publish case studies showing clients with less than conversions per month does my recommendation mean that if you have less than conversions per month you should never consider cro no you can still do cro. however you must understand that you will not be able to run ab testing at a fast scale. most of your testing will be done to optimize micro conversions. that is not necessarily a bad thing. but you must have the right mindset. why dont many online companies focus on increasing website conversion rates these are the five main reasons many online companies do not focus on increasing their conversions. increasing website traffic is easier than increasing website conversion rates to increase your offline sales you train your staff reorganize the store run incentives and conduct customer surveys. in contrast it is a lot easier to increase your ppc campaign budget or daily spend thus increasing the traffic to your site. setting up paid campaigns requires little effort for most companies. converting the new traffic these campaigns bring is much more challenging and requires a person or team to put together all the pieces. . many companies failed at conversion optimization we see it all the time. companies launch a new conversion rate program hoping to increase their online revenue. they jump into testing right away. they do not follow a methodology in optimization. they randomly select pages to test randomly test elements on these pages and do not analyze the results of their testing program. a few months later after a few failed experiments they shut down the program. if you think about it there is not a problem with optimization in this scenario. there is a problem with the way these companies approach conversion optimization. random marketing does not work in any campaign. good results require consistent and repeatable methodology. . increasing conversion rates is complex increasing your website revenue requires you to anticipate and understand visitors cognitive progression what information your visitors are expecting to see as well as to provide them with that information. it requires you to focus on human behavior on your website which is not an easy task. many companies shy away from addressing this problem. however would you stop doing something you know can help your business just because you think it is complex wouldnt it make more sense to put the time and effort to understand it and reap the benefits from it. increasing conversion rates requires commitment just like any other type of marketing program conversion optimization is a longterm commitment. no shortcuts here. cro is not a light switch you turn on and off. many companies fear pursuing a new activity unknown to them but ultimately this is a numbers game. it is about calculating how much money cro will require you to invest and what return you should expect. and thats why every company should ask themselves does the return justify the investment. the ego problem cro gives your visitors a voice in the design process of your website. the more analysis and testing you conduct the larger the voice of the visitor will be on your website. that is a good thing. well most of the time. someone in your team might be you your designer your ceo may discover the vast contrast between his ideas of what works best and the visitors actual interests. that is not always an easy pill to swallow. whats worse is when the visitors voice points to solutions that go against the current trends. as today marks my first day as an entrepreneur in residence at trinity ventures im spending a lot of time thinking about how to formalize my process for starting a new venture. every startup goes through phases including brainstorming ideas selecting evaluation criteria performing due diligence on top ideas picking a winner deciding on a corporate structure putting together the team evaluating funding options and more. while the popular press often glamorizes the startup story as an epiphany moment from an opportunistic individual that grows to a successful corporate behemoth i prefer a much more systematic approach to entrepreneurship and life in general for that matter. as i begin this journey myself i thought id document my new venture process along the way share it with all of you and hopefully hear from you on your own thoughts. often one of the earliest steps in forming a new venture is coming up with the idea. i wont argue that this should necessarily be the first step though since in my previous venture anywhere. fm we picked the team before the idea and that was the right choice for us. i also wont argue that it is necessarily the most important step because while a startup needs a great idea its not without great execution that an idea can become a successful endeavor. im often asked where i come up with all my ideas as im typically chockfull of potential ideas percolating in my head. i have a variety of sources of inspiration that help me put together laundry lists of potential startup opportunities. before i dive into my muses though i think whats important to realize is that the best idea brainstorming happens outside of any specific brainstorming phase. good idea generation is like a muscle that you are constantly flexing. its a mindset and attitude towards the problems you face everyday and your ability to effect change. while some people are innately curious and problem solvers i still think like any muscle this skill is something that can exercised and improved. im personally innately curious. but what has been a huge boon for me was learning to program on my first computer an apple iic when i was in middle school. i quickly learned basic and fell in love with the idea that i could make things. in the early days it was often games to amuse myself which is what typically attracts many young boys to programming but as time passed i started making more useful applications. one of the issues i had early on was quizzing myself on vocabulary words. i quickly wrote a program i called vocabulary master to provide me random word definitions give me three attempts to guess the word correctly and tell me the word if i failed to remember it. it was a very simple application but was the foundation for my strong belief that i can solve real world problems through software. ever since then ive constantly had a list of potential ideas. oftentimes when something bothers me or i think that something can be improved i add it to a list of potential projects and i have to say that i love the fact that now i have an iphone always in my pocket to record my ideas. its this critical lens of looking for ways to improve what you see every day and having the attitude that you can do something about it that i think makes for a great base of idea generation. beyond that there are specific muses ive used to help jump start my creative juices i think often the best source of ideas comes from your area of expertise and the problems you face on a daytoday basis in your career. you probably find yourself saying why is this so hard there has got to be an easier way every so often. it may be a product extension to your existing businesss core products or may be unrelated to the business but a pain point you feel trying to get your job done. from my experience at imeem focusing on monetization ive come up with countless pain points in trying to monetize social media and large publisher sites that could be fruitful startup opportunities. i think another very important exercise is analyzing macroeconomic trends and thinking about the opportunities it creates. what obviously comes to mind first these days is the recession and i think a lot of startup opportunities will come out of that. anywhere from helping people save money find jobs or tapping into the funds made available through the stimulus bill. but beyond the recession i think there are a lot of other exciting market trends that are creating countless opportunities. anywhere from the proliferation of apis to the rise of cloud platforms to the opening up of mobile devices i believe there remains significant inefficiency in applying new technologies across multiple vertical applications. it behooves a startup to focus at least initially on a very specific application to prove out the model and to provide the best experience. but this creates significant opportunity for other startups to bring that existing technology innovation to new verticals and thus becomes a fruitful source of startup ideas. i often think about how trends in certain spaces can be applied to new segments. for example can we bring the viral spreading of applications native to facebook apps to iphone applications or can we bring the successful virtual goods monetization model from social games to nongaming sites if you have a specific area of interest or vertical segment that excites you i think its hugely valuable to constantly keep up with the latest news in that area. these days its so easy to use google alerts to subscribe to daily feeds of the latest news blogs and search results of your topic of choice. i have these setup for various areas of interest including open platforms and personal productivity. i think its also very important to constantly be exposed to new startup ideas. when you hear peoples ideas and their take on solving them it definitely helps to get your own mind thinking about related opportunities in the space or at least helps to think critically about how they may have come up with such a solution. i daily skim techcrunch as a great source of startup ideas. i think jessica livingstons founders at work was also a great case study of many different startup ideas. as i said great entrepreneurs have this ability to constantly come up with ideas and potential solutions. ive been spending the last month catching up with a lot of my fellow entrepreneurs to not only chat about their business but more importantly interesting things that they have seen outside of their own startup. when an entrepreneur is busy executing against a specific idea he is knee deep in one specific space. that doesnt mean though that he doesnt think about other ideas or have other ideas percolating in his head. i think its often great to tap into this creative thinking to spur some of your own ideas. agile is the new waterfall a followup the startup medium sign in get started medium things submit agile is the new waterfall a followup ayasin follow mar min read several months ago i wrote an article lamenting the fetishization of agile in place of the practice of actually being agile aka process minimalism focused on production. it got a lot of traction nearly k people bothered to take a look a lot of misunderstanding and even raised the ire of luminaries such as uncle bob. people come from different backgrounds and different cultures. as a result not all literary devices translate equally. this is my response to all the responses i received. response you dont understand agile agile isnt waterfall of course agile isnt waterfall. theyre very different processes that look almost nothing alike. agile is waterfall in the way that its been incorrectly embraced as the hammer for every problem without ever really thinking it through. people embracing it in this manner use agile and often scrum as a cargo cult engineering process. they embrace the ceremonies and they actually call them ceremonies of agile for the purpose of conducting the ceremonies. they assume that if they conduct the ceremonies the gods of good software will reward them with good software. theres no substitute for actually doing the work. ceremonies for the sake of having ceremonies because thats what it means to be agile actively hinder getting work done. response youre picking on consultants guilty. i am picking on agile consultancies. why because they generally dont work. do some actually try to make your process better sure id go as far as to say most act from a place of honesty. the problem is that they often introduce rules and process without understanding what actually needs to be done in your specific case. they want to be agile. they want to hit the right words. while they understand how to run an agile shop they often assume that making software is all the same. its not. a company that builds dating sites isnt the same as a company that builds software for insulin pumps. that difference is huge in what it means to be agile. in order to accurately determine what the right process should be you need a good understanding of the problem space. this is something an agile consultancy will never have. youre far better off hiring a team lead that understands lean processes as well as your specific problem space. response engineers shouldnt be in charge of business decisions true for the most part. thats not what engineer driven development means. by engineer driven development i mean engineers decide how long things will take and what resources need to be allocated to make an engineering project successful. theyre the only ones qualified to do so. imagine you want to build a bridge across a river. you dont say we have bags of concrete and hours then get a civil engineer to do the design. you get the civil engineer to do analyze the issue and that informs how much time and how many materials you need. the engineer didnt dictate where the bridge goes how the city should grow or where businesses should be located relative to the bridge but he did drive decisions related to the building of the bridge. of course we shouldnt exclude the civil engineer from all decisions about where the bridge should go either. for example if we want to build a bridge across the pacific we might want to engage the engineer early so he can say thats not a reasonable request before we spend lots of money and time to determine if the populace will love it. in the same way developers need to drive development decisions but obviously these come with the constraints of how the business needs to grow. these constraints are defined by or preferably defined in conjunction with others. compare this to business driven development where your resources and time constraints are made based exclusively on whats ideal for the business and youre expected to get it done in those constraints. would you cross a bridge built under those conditions then why would you build software that way response you dont understand story points fair enough but i would argue that no one understands story points because they have no fixed lexical meaning. they end up meaning whatever is convenient in the moment and often changing their meaning later though youre stuck with the number. i was in a planning meeting for a client where the following statements were all made inside of minutes naturally there was an agile consultant running the meeting story points arent time dont try to estimate how long something will take. if a story is over we need to break it down because it means its going to take more than a week sprint. story points should be a single number that encompasses both effort and complexity. what how does any of that make any sense points and are contradictory and by the way often used in this manner and tries to take completely unrelated things and mash them into a single unitless measure to which well silently add a unit in our heads normally time. if you insist on doing story points use numbers. one for complexity and one for effort. better yet just guesstimate time in days. if youre wrong thats ok just roll with the punches. response youre just bitter because youve never seen agile done right capital a agile cant be done right because its more concerned with ceremony than advancement. there are shops doing minimal process right if you work at one great agile is the new waterfall isnt about you. the article was designed to give voice and perhaps offer some solutions to those suffering under flaccid scrum and other abuses of the buzzwords surrounding agile. response you suck and youre dumb probably. difference between diversity and inclusion and why you need both blog content while diversity and inclusion often are used interchangeably the difference between the two concepts is vitally important. according to the society for human resource management shrm studies show that teams or organizations with diverse qualities experiences and work styles bring more ideas perspectives and approaches to the table. on top of efforts to diversify their employee base businesses may want to take note of the organizational success associated with the move toward inclusion. when interviewers without standardized questions are left to decide which candidate to hire their decisions tend to be subjective and unconsciously influenced by fixed thoughts on race gender and ethnicity. read more defining the difference as defined by shrm diversity references the similarities and differences between individuals accounting for all aspects of ones personality and individual identity. it implies variety in characteristics like race sex or age. inclusion however refers to the efforts used to embrace those differences. it describes how much each person feels welcomed respected supported and valued. inclusion is about seeing employees whole selves recognizing that their differences make them uniquely qualified to contribute to the organization. as diversity and inclusion expert vern myers explains diversity is being invited to the party inclusion is being asked to dance. how inclusion leads to organizational success consider this according to the mckinsey company report delivering through diversity ethnically and racially diverse companies are more likely to outperform industry norms while genderdiverse companies are more likely to earn more revenue. released in january the report suggests that gender ethnic and cultural diversity correlate to financial performance particularly when the diversity is within executive teams. these highperforming companies acknowledge that commitment to an inclusive environment starts at the top. the mckinsey reports authors note that progress on representation is a start and can be done relatively quickly with the right initiatives such as targeted recruiting while embedding inclusion within the organization can take time to develop. inclusion stretches far beyond hiring employees with different backgrounds and ethnicities. it is a mindset in which employers actively provide each member of the workforce with equal access to opportunities. organizations can begin to transition from diversity efforts to those of inclusion to create an environment in which all employees can thrive and contribute their best work. key legal documents for a startup company in order to legally incorporate your company you are required to draft and maintain a series of legal documents. these documents are necessary so that the government customers and members of the public can see basic information about your company and confirm that you are a properly organized business that follows the law. in addition to governmentmandated documents a few other legal documents are commonly used to protect your business from legal disputes with shareholders employees or competitors. this article will introduce you to these documents and the need to keep them up to date in order to comply with governmental regulation of corporations. ready to setup your company incorporate online home startups launch and growth key legal documents for a startup company nearly all jurisdictions require that as part of the incorporation process you provide the statutory authorities with the constitution of your company previously known as memorandum and articles of association. the constitution defines that rules by which your organization will be run the companys structure and the aims and the rules that govern it. in order to minimise the probability of disputes between shareholders it is prudent to also draw up a shareholders agreement. the set of documents that are needed by every company to comply with the laws of a jurisdiction is called the company register which is kept at either the registered office or principal place of business. over the life of your business you may modify the rules by which you run your company. you are legally obligated to keep a record of these changes and update the documents that are part of the company register. if the business is ever sold these statutory books i. e. the company register must be handed over to the new owner. if your business produces or uses new technology or other intellectual property ip assets it is essential to agree on who owns that ip as it is the ip which will provide much of the longterm value to investors and other shareholders. business owners also need to keep meticulous records of the employment agreements they enter into with individual staff members in order to avoid any confusion later on. the constitution of a company once an entrepreneur has made the decision to incorporate the first document he or she will have to draw up is typically the constitution of the company previously known as memorandum and articles of association. once signed by initial shareholders the constitution can be thought of as your companys charter. it is a publiclyaccessible record of your companys objectives and structure. as part of the constitution you are required to state your businesss address and legal name. the name of your business should be distinct so as to avoid legal troubles with companies with similar names. your constitution should also summarize the main objectives of your business and any ancillary objectives that are required to achieve the main ones. the constitution also records important initial financial information about your business and defines its relationship with shareholders. typically a liability clause will state that the shareholders are only liable for the businesss debts to the extent to which they are invested in the venture. additionally the constitution lists a companys assets the amount of share capital and how it is divided up between shareholders. for larger companies with multiple categories of shares the constitution also sets out the types of shares initially offered by the company and their nominal value. in most jurisdictions the constitution must be lodged with the local company registrar as part of the incorporation process with the notable exception of the usa. in singapore you are required to provide the constitution to the registration authority and singapore provides a model constitution that can be used by most companies. the constitution outlines the regulations of the company and contains provisions relating to how the company is to be governed. they are a contract between shareholders and the organisation. the constitution is required by law to set out the rights and duties of shareholders. there must be an agreed procedure for the allotment transfer and forfeiture of shares. the extent to which shareholders can expect to receive dividends and enjoy voting rights is specified. the former is of particular interest to investors as dividends are often a major longterm incentive for share ownership. in the event that all shares are cancelled and the company is shut down the constitution will detail the procedure that will be followed by stakeholders. in addition to setting out the rules governing shareholders involvement in the company the constitution regulates the behaviour of the board of directors. this might include how directors and the chairperson should be elected how frequently the board should meet and the quorum required for decisionmaking. the board is typically legally obliged to meet at least once per year for an annual general meeting agm. any special rights held by the chairperson should also be specified at this point. statutory books over the course of your business life you are required by law to keep an ongoing record of changes to the legal structure of the company in your statutory books. this includes changes to shareholding directors company secretary registered office aoa company name etc. also known as the company register or company books these records must be given to the new owner in the event that you sell your business. statutory books are usually kept at the companys registered office and are available for public viewing within office hours. the requirements for statutory books vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction but companies are typically required to keep a copy of the constitution as well as the certificate they receive from the local authority proving that the business is a properly incorporated legal entity. shareholders agreement shareholders agreements are not required by law nor are they publicly accessible but they can be extremely valuable in ensuring that shareholders are treated fairly particularly when multiple shareholders are involved. such agreements can be unanimous or involve only a small group of shareholders such as the founding team. as new shareholders join the business they may want to add additional terms to ensure return on their investment thus shareholders agreements tend to become more complex over time. once a company has hundreds of shareholders or becomes a public company the need for this document disappears and the applicable securities regulations then take over. you can review a template shareholders agreement here. perhaps the most important part of an agreement like this is a capitalisation table that shows who owns how many shares of different types. shareholders access to financial reports for a company can also be controlled through this agreement. entrepreneurs should also specify the criteria under which a shareholder can be bought out and how any disagreements should be dealt with. these clauses can have quite a few bells and whistles such as shotgun clause the right of first refusal or most simply a voluntary sale. agreements often allow shareholders to pledge their shares issue them to family or give them over to a trust to manage. each of these possibilities may have tax ramifications which are beyond the scope of this article and should be discussed with a tax professional. agreements should also set out a procedure to be followed in the event that a member dies. ip assignment agreement during incorporation it is best practice to assign all relevant intellectual property created by the founders to the newlyformed company. this is not a legal requirement but it is absolutely critical for technology businesses. if your product depends on key ip assets understanding your right to use such assets will be a central part of any investors due diligence. most investors will not invest in the absence of this document. as such it is essential to speak to a qualified ip lawyer in the early stages of your companys life. employment agreement as your business expands it will need to hire employees. in order to provide evidence that an employment relationship exists it is essential to record these agreements in writing. failure to do so could have unforeseen consequences at a later stage. employment contracts set out the obligations that employers and employees have towards each other and the benefits they will receive from mutual association. in particular they stipulate the material terms of employment such as how much the employee can expect to get paid and by when. if employees are entitled to stock or stock options this should be made clear in their contract. each agreement must be tailored to suit the individual employment relationship in question. in many instances the content of employment contracts will be affected by the employment law in your local jurisdiction. for example it would be illegal to force workers to be in the office for hours per day every day of the week. employees are entitled to national holidays as well as a certain amount of paid holiday which may depend on how long they have worked for your company. another crucial part of an employment agreement is the section on duration. businesses and employees are legally obliged to give each other a certain amount of notice before the employee is either fired or voluntarily quits. this provides both parties with a degree of financial security. for cases where termination is necessary the contract will stipulate the grounds on which the owner is able to fire the worker. this might include anything from constant lateness to providing competitors with sensitive information although many employment agreements allow managers to fire workers at will without giving a substantive reason. some businesses lock their senior hires into their operations for months or even years after the end of the contract by including a noncompete clause. conclusion in summary the important documents you need to understand as a business owner fall into three broad categories. the constitution of the company is a legal requirement when you incorporate you have no choice about whether you draw them up or not. creating a shareholders agreement and ip assignment agreement are not legally mandatory but highly advisable particularly if your company plans on acquiring a large number of shareholders or selling globally. as your business develops you will have to enter into employment contracts with staff. you must also keep your company books uptodate so that they can be given to a buyer in the event that your business is acquired. debugging recruiting recruiting great people is a priority for any company at any stage of their growth. in the early stages finding and hiring your initial team is core to instilling the right company culture. to hire effectively founders and managers need to be thoughtful and organized about their recruiting process from the first screening until delivering an offer. a sloppy and inconsistent process reflects poorly on the company and can be the difference between a yes i want to join and no i dont think this is the right fit. as a talent partner at greylock i work with our portfolio and advise them on refining their recruiting processes. as such ive become familiar with many of the common problems that both new and experienced teams face when recruiting. recently i gave a talk that addresses some of these frequent bugs in the recruiting process and want to share my presentation here more broadly. i go over the three stages of recruiting sourcing evaluation and conversion covering common mistakes made at each level as well as the questions you need to answer to avoid them. market entry posted in marketing and strategy terms total reads definition market entry market entry is the bringing in of products or associated products into the target market. while considering market entry any business will consider the following read next market value market capitalization market value added mva market market buildup size of the opportunity barriers to entry industry structure competition projected and historical growth environment analysis initial investment sometimes a market entry strategy has to be defined if there is import export and a lot of regulations get involved as well. sometimes companies consider entering crowded markets where many factors need to be analysed to differentiate their products and many times niche markets are created by companies for market entry. some of the market entry strategies used are as follows franchising licensing alliances mergers and acquisitions exporting joint ventures market entry strategy also depends on time of market entry. the two models strategies generally followed are waterfall model this model refers to entering different markets at different times in some sequential order. sprinkler model the sprinkler model aims at entering as many markets as possible within a limited period of time. example recently starbucks the international coffee house giant made an entry into india. for ensuring better and smoother market entry they formed an alliance with the tata group which helped them in setting up the business more seamlessly in india. hence this concludes the definition of market entry along with its overview. pt selling jobs to be done whos the customer sign in get started frameplay jobs to be done about frameplay frameplay innovation consultancy pt selling jobs to be done whos the customer andrea f hill follow nov min read this is a part series on understanding the different flavors of jtbd and how to decide which is most appropriate to help you meet your innovation goals. background approaches and people part what methodology should you hire to help you apply jobs to be done the jobs to be done theory that customers want to make progress in their lives and they hire products to help them get that job done can revolutionize a company. rather than focusing on how to compete in a feature war against other competitors based on industry standards you have the ability to break away as a result of unique customer insights. but great potential can lead to great confusion. customer insights can ripple across an organization and be interpreted differently by different parties. thats why understanding the context and circumstance that leads to jtbd research is so important. over the past few weeks ive talked about jtbd with three prospects. each came to me already thinking jtbd could solve a problem in their business. but each had a different problem to be solved a different job to be done. each wanted to learn about their customers jobs but held a different vision of the progress they were trying to make. change how sales and marketing communicate value to our prospects so we can close more deals faster digital marketing manager improve the product for our customers so they will churn less ux director cultivate a shared understanding of our customer across the organization so we are more effective in creating and selling products ceo identify adjacent areas where our customers are dissatisfied to introduce new products to our portfolio so we can improve our arpu and stickiness intrapreneur not only did each of these customers have a different view of the progress they were trying to make each one had a different target object he planned to act on. sales and marketing will change. the product will change. the entire organization will change. our product portfolio will change. remember jobs to be done is just a theory about how any why customers and hire products into their lives. even as you learn about and accept the theory how its applied to your organization to meet your specific goals will be unique to you. if youre part of a team eager to bring jobs to be done into your organization great you can hopefully see how understanding your customers progress and struggles can transform your business and what target objects you have to work with. if youre a consultant things may be a little less clear for you. youre staring down the eye of a powerful weapon and not sure yet how you want to use it. thats ok too. just be aware that youre going to be much more successful if you take the time to figure out where you want to shoot it before you pull the trigger with a client now we have much more information about the customer his desired progress and the target object he plans to act on. soon we can start digging into his struggles and identify a way to move him forward. but first we need to define the job in jobs to be done pt. the right type of customer conversations des traynor cofounder chief strategy officer intercom des traynor august share this article share this page on twitter this link opens in a new window share this page on twitter this link opens in a new window share this page on twitter this link opens in a new window conversations with customers are valuable but they have to be the right type of conversations not merely questions about forgotten passwords and the like. they have to add value for you and them. good conversation good customer in intercom we encourage businesses to talk to their customers. its how you grow a business its how you keep customers happy loyal and evangelical about your product. but talking to your customers isnt about blindly spitting out messages to everyone or counting every customer contact as a good thing. not all customers nor all contacts are of equal importance. get this wrong and youll drown your team in a wave of valueless communications. lets talk about internet scale. you cant talk to everyone about everything if you have monthly active users and. contact you each day you have contacts to deal with every day. if each issue takes minutes to solve thats full days worth of work generated every day. if your team works in hour shifts you need a team of staff just to keep up which means even on modest salaries youre dropping a few grand a day. you can see how this becomes a problem right eliminating dumb contacts most web companies are on the defensive. they fight to beat down their support channels. its like a game of whacamole except your mallet doesnt work. so the idea that you should talk to customers more is often met with derision by lots of businesses. but what if they talk back is the common reply. to reduce your volume you have to reduce your dumb contacts. every customer communication is either irritating or valuable for your company and your customer alike. dumb contacts are the ones that are irritating for both. for each type of contact theres an appropriate action you should follow the next step is simple quantify each type of dumb contact and how long it takes to resolve. this lets you prioritise your customer service conversations. prioritising your work the kneejerk reaction here is to solve the most frequently occurring issues first. this is often the best way to tackle your volume initially as it gets rid of the lowhanging fruit. you cant stop there though. you need to understand which issues take most time. this is usually called average handle time aht for short. combining the volume with aht gives you a sense of where the biggest opportunity is. every category then needs to be thoroughly understood so it can be tackled appropriately. solving the problem can involve redesign better copy faster performances more robust error handling broader file support or plain old bug fixing. getting on the front foot as dumb contacts decrease you have bought yourself capacity to have meaningful interactions with your customers. ones where you help them get the most from your product and ones where you learn lots about how it is used and how it could be improved. these are the communications that grow loyalty and create evangelists. go ahead start talking to your customers. if you dont your competitor will. ever since the founding of facebook in february of and twitter in march of marketing has completely changed. brands that once built campaigns to push market awareness through standardized marketing channels are now using social media to drive brand awareness and sales. a prime example is the streetwear industry which does a great job of using social media to control supply and demand. instead of focusing on pushing a lot of lowpriced items these brands sell out a limited number of extremely markedup items which are fueled by social media hype and promotion. combining social media trends and viral content allows them to leverage the hype and causes the demand to far exceed the quantity available. i absolutely love this business model which led to me connecting with elie neufeld founder of dhtk. after identifying streetwear as a major trend in fashion he launched the brand to merge a variety of major trends creating one lifestyle brand. by leveraging trends in sports fashion and other facets of youth lifestyles dhtk demonstrates the end result of correctly executing on marketing trends. while talking to neufeld about his growth strategy for dhtk he shared his gameplan for viral growth which is universal and can be applied to any industry. related reasons a powerful personal brand will make you successful. identify influential trends on social media. being active on social media gives you a glimpse at whats popular in todays society. in recent years lebron james has grown from being one of the top basketball players into a worldwide cultural icon. between appearances in blockbuster films brand alignments and switching from the cleveland cavaliers to the miami heat and back again james has become a larger than life on and off the court. dhtk accurately identified sports as a cultural trend with a number of top performers lebron james michael jordan and stephen curry all push culture forward with their massive following and influence. turning to social media can provide you with the insight to clearly identify the major trends that people are talking about. . understand and identify the cool factor. many brands and entrepreneurs are able to spot major trends but simply following them is not enough. you need to be able to understand what the cool factor is and leverage it to grow your brand. if you are able to associate your brand with a trending cool factor you ride that wave drawing attention to your company which is fueled entirely by that trend. for example when drakes album if you are reading this it is too late dropped dhtk combined hiphop trends drakes growth unique album design and typeface styles which resulted in the release of the first it is too lateinspired designs. it was a success because it combined the unique album design with the companys own brand style. related habits of the wealthy that helped them get rich. build social media awareness. building brand awareness requires you to identify content that will work with the specific trend you are going after. it doesnt matter if we are talking about a brand in the fashion music or sports industry each requires a unique style of content the consumer demographic wants to consume. dhtk understands it fits into both sports and fashion so it creates social media posts that work with both niches. determine relevant trend niches identify the prominent hashtags and spend time determining what content styles your target audience enjoys interacting with. when you do this correctly the outcome is more engagement and more potential customers discovering your brand. . associate with influencers. influencer marketing is one of the most promising trends consumers want to be able to relate to the people they follow on social media. associating your brand with influencers can result in consumers automatically relating with you based solely on that relationship with someone they follow on social media. its important to make sure an influencers brand story aligns perfectly with your brands narrative. you do not need to necessarily establish a paid relationship with influencers in order to associate with them. dhtk which stands for dont hate the king has clear associations with the common phrase people recite when referencing lebron james also known as king james in basketball circles. this association combines the respect and power of lebron with the power and aesthetic of the dhtk brand story without any formal partnership. related qualities that make a great leaderfinal thoughtsno matter what industry you are in leveraging marketing trends can help you boost viral engagement and increase brand awareness and revenue. pay attention to what people are talking about then figure out how to do something interesting to get people talking about your brand. a yearoveryear calculation compares a statistic for one period to the same period the previous year. the period is for a month or quarter basis. the yearoveryear growth rate calculates the percentage change during the past twelve months. yearoveryear yoy is an effective way of looking at growth for two reasons. first it removes the effects of seasons. for example say your business revenue rose percent last month. before you break out the bubbly check it against the income from the same month last year. maybe your sales always rise this time of year. if sales typically rise percent this month then your revenue is down yearoveryear. your business is doing worse not better. second it discerns longterm trends. say a business is growing at a nice steady percent a month. but if it grew percent a month last year it will be down when compared yearoveryear. for these reasons make sure you check what comparisons a financial report is using. are the authors comparing the data to the previous full year such as months of accumulated revenue or to a statistics value as of the last period of the quarter month week or day also check to see if they are using the calendar year or fiscal year. if youre thinking about using the yoy statistic the following snapshot of the pros and cons can help you apply the metric more effectively. prosnegates seasonality because it compares specific points in timesmoothes out volatility throughout the year to compare net resultseasy to calculate no need for spreadsheet or financial calculatorstates results in percentage terms for an easy comparison across differentsized companiesconsoffers meaningless results if one time period had negative growthprovides more meaning when trends are observed over several calculated periodscan hide problems in a given month if only comparing fullyear metrics yoydoesnt offer much information unless used with other metricspros and consthe biggest advantage of yearoveryear comparisons is that they automatically negate the effect of seasonality. for example retail statistics rise each november and december because of the holiday shopping season. its the most critical time of the year as the season accounts for almost percent of retail sales. another advantage is that the metric is stated in percentage terms making it easy to compare differentsized companies when doing industry competitor or peercompany analysis. yearoveryear analysis helps smooth out any volatility in the monthtomonth numbers. for example investors should have used a yearoveryear comparison in june. the bureau of labor statistics reported that the economy only added jobs. they panicked because it was less than the jobs added in may and the jobs added in april. the unemployment rate rose to. percent. the stock market dropped. the prices of safe haven investments like treasuries and gold skyrocketed. thanks to that panic gold hit an alltime high of an ounce a few months later. in this case the calculation seemed misleading when using individual months yoy but when using fullyear results the calculation showed that the total number of employed people had increased by. million between june and june. the economys recovery had not derailed. there are more examples like these in the current jobs report and the current unemployment report. dont rely on yearoveryear alone. its a good idea to look at monthtomonth as well to get the full picture. a few issues can arise with the yoy calculation especially if a company experiences a period of negative growth. the resulting growth rate wont make sense. also as with many other business metrics the yoy statistic provides much more information when calculated for a few time periods to reveal trends and doesnt really explain enough of a companys growth story unless used along with other metrics. if you rely only on the yoy metric calculated with fullyear values you may also miss problems such as abnormally low growth in one month which gets smoothed out if using a fullyear number for the calculation. most business news reports monthly trends. you usually have to seek out the yearoveryear number yourself but you can find the formula inputs on a companys financial statements and easily calculate the statistic with a standard calculator. how to calculate the yearoveryear growth rate the balance to calculate the yearoveryear growth rate you need two numbers and a calculator. then take these three steps. subtract last years number from this years number. that gives you the total difference for the year. if its positive it indicates a yearoveryear gain not a loss. for example this year you sold paintings. last year you sold. you sold more paintings this year. then divide the difference by last years number. thats paintings divided by paintings. that gives you the yearoveryear growth rate. now simply put it into percent format. you find. or. percent. lets return to the employment example. in june total employment was. million. total employment in june was. million. heres how to calculate the yearoveryear growth rate. subtract. million from. million. the difference is. million or. divide. million by. million last years employment number. the answer is. or. percent. thats the yearoveryear growth rate. examplesmost government statistics are monthtomonth or quartertoquarter. youll need to calculate the yearoveryear numbers yourself to get the full picture. here are three leading economic indicators where its important to do yearoveryear calculations durable goods the commerce department reports this statistic monthtomonth. but yoy calculations warned of the great recession as early as october. manufacturing jobs america had been losing manufacturing jobs on a monthly basis for years. but when jobs started declining yoy in it was a sign of the pending recession. gross domestic product it says how fast the economy grew in the most recent quarter. the bureau of economic analysis annualizes the gdp growth rate. it reports how much the economy would produce for the entire year if it continued growing at the same rate. the bea does that so its easier for you to do a yoy comparison with previous years of gdp growth. get to know your user personas jobs to be done. prototypr sign in get started ux design the interaction review en espaol prototyping tools get to know your user personas jobs to be done. dayuxchallenge day ux boot camp follow nov min read personas template on day we talked about how design thinking can help our team in keeping the user at the center of the conversation and how empathy maps are a great way to start consolidating the teams knowledge about the users. we all know that really understanding our users is fundamental to ux design. so today we will cover how personas and jobs to be done complement each other and are actually useful p personas personas are one of the best ways to empathize with our users. giving them a name a face and knowing details about their life helps you and the team to connect and design for them. do. summing it up a photo or illustration that visually represents that persona a quote that best summarizes their motivation relationship with your product demographics age family status occupation because it ties to their motivations their feelings main point points frustrations motivations and goals also somehow related to your product context when and how they would be using your product. persona template together these datapoints should summarize who that group of user represents why they use the product and how they are using it. however working with personas as the main resource to deeply understand our users motivation has proven more and more challenging over time mainly because personas often overlap each other or have multiple motivations. its confusing i know. thats why jobs to be done are becoming another popular resource. jobs to be done if you are not familiar with the concept jobs to be done is used to focus on the key highlevel tasks the user wants to achieve when using our product s. by understanding what is the overarching goals we can focus on creating the best user experience for this. it aligns the team to solve the most important tasks. for example marktplaats works on customer journey teams and rochelle works on the placing journey team which is the end to end experience from creating an advertisement online managing ads to removing. this is a simplified version of what a job to be done on marktplaats placing team could be as an occasional seller i need a way to create a successful ad so that i can sell my product as quick as possible. as you can see in this the team identified the persona which is an occasional seller. they want to create a successful ad and we know their motivation is to sell as fast as possible maybe they are moving house. we can use this highlevel job to be done to guide us in everything we do in the project. how can we help them to create a successful ad how can we help them to sell fast at marketplaats jobs to be done are phrased in the way of and the same user aka the same persona could be using our product for different reasons in different situations. but yes it is still the same persona. another brief example would be at envato users can purchase digital assets that help them with their own projects. the assets could be cms themes after effects templates or even an illustration. lets use as an example a user that is a freelancer developer and often purchases templates for his clients he would be a frequent buyer and he would probably have specific budget and requirements for his clients projects. but then lets assume he decides to work on a side project and he is creating a website to talk about a personal hobby. so our same freelancer developer persona hires us for two different jobs. in this context if we ask what job is the freelancer developer trying to get done we could get two different conclusions delivering my clients projects in time and the secondary one being creating a website for my hobby. both jobs above will have different needs different deadlines and specific budgets. and why is it important for us to understand both because these insights will actually help us understanding in more detail than the persona sheets why that user is cultivating a relationship with our product and what they are using it for. after defining the main jobs to be done some teams also break it down by functional and emotional criteria that way you can understand what is the users rationale behind that purchase but also what is their emotional motivations to engage with our product service. jobs to be done template the findings above are just useful if the team is aware of them and use it as their northstar. make sure its well shared repeated and used ps. day will be covering creative ways to playback research findings to your team. so hang in there we will come back to this topic pretty soon what about you what are your means to keep the user at the center of the conversation if you are new to ux jump in and create your first persona. dont forget to tag it with dayuxchallenge so we can see it too the templates used in this article can be purchased here. gabi braga ux designer at envato elements freelancer at toptal beer enthusiast in her spare time rochelle carr ux designer placing customer journey team marktplaats ebay. soft spot for red wine tries to learn dutch in her spare time. this post is part of the dayuxchallenge you can read more about why we started it here and dont forget to follow us on twitter and instagram prototypr prototyping ux design frontend development and beyond follow ux user research user experience design day challenge claps written by ux boot camp follow we are ux designers from different countries working for another different companies who got together to start a global ux sharingmovement online follow prototypr follow prototyping ux design frontend development and beyondwe all follow the tech news closely. at the time of writing this post techcrunchs front page has stories about startups raising vc funding story about a later stage company starting to invest in startups and story about a vc firm having raised a new fund. the headlines about money are mixed with a couple of articles around recent developments for wellknown companies a smartphone review and ironically a story around a recent partner promotion at a vc firm. its clear that the combination of startups generates interest within our community. and a lot of the time as a small unknown startup getting vc funding is one of the few tactics around to gain some journalistic interest for your business. since a lot of the startup media bandwidth is dedicated to financing amongst entrepreneurs there also seems to be an overindexed belief that the path to success venture funding. this. is. not. the. case. most companies should never ever consider raising capital. here are my top reasons why you should not raise vc funding. . entrepreneurial success takes many forms success can be articulated in many ways. most often it has to do with a sense of accomplishment living according to your values and freedom to pursue a life where you control your destiny. very rarely is it defined by financial outcome. such is very much the case with entrepreneurship. surely if you founded uber you would feel an amazing pride in having created a company with a global footprint which impacts people all over the world and the financial upside is insane. however a tiny satoshi of all companies ever make it into becoming musd value range not even considering the multi busd stratosphere. but as an entrepreneur you may just as well feel endless success and satisfaction by creating the professional freedom gained from having a person team profitably delivering a product or service to a small part of the world. if that lean team also manages the business efficiently you may be able to collect annual dividends and live a financially comfortable life. when you bootstrap or organically grow a company you have all the options in the world. you decide the speed professional lifestyle and how to reinvest or pocket any excess profits generated. but at the time a company raises vc funding you suddenly limit your companys path into something where success is defined by large value creation. expectations of rapid growth will overshadow most other things. in some cases you may also give up a bunch of control and freedom to your investors who suddenly can make a decision which goes against you around the strategic direction of the company and even your own job and function within the organization. understand your own drivers behind your entrepreneurial ambition and why you are choosing to create a new company and recognize there are other paths and rewards to entrepreneurial success than raising vc funding. . your market is simply not big enough if youre willing to give up control to pursue your opportunity and you believe external capital will get you there faster in order to be a likely candidate for vc funding you need to make sure your market and ambition is big enough. vcs invest with the potential of outside returns from companies who are true outliers when it comes to value creation. fund economics is based upon power law distribution where often one single company in a whole portfolio represents the vast amount of returns generated. the difficult thing for a vc is that its hard to know and predict which one that will be at the time of investing. hence most vcs invests on the basis that every single investment must have a theoretical likelihood of becoming a huge outlier. the analysis done on how large a company could become i. e. how much it can be valued at is therefore often anchored in the underlying market opportunity. this comes down to answering basic questions like how many people or companies suffer from the problem the startup is trying to solve and how much is the willingness to pay for such a solution. unless the underlying market is multibusd its unlikely vcs would invest in you. keep in mind that often times your market is also smaller than you think it is. to put this into perspective at creandum when im analyzing market opportunities at a minimum i would like a single company to have a theoretical chance of returning a quarter of our fund. for a vc with a m fund our investment would need to generate m proceeds for us. for simplicity of math say the fund owns at the time of exit the company need to exit at a m valuation. this is the floor of the opportunity and most of the time we aspire to look for companies who pursue an opportunity sized far north from that. the reality is that most companies are not going after large enough markets to generate this kind of value creation. we fairly quickly rule out companies which are pursuing a local whether its a swedish or nordic or even european version of a wellknown company category. even if you do everything correct and win the market a swedish netflix will not create enough value to generate the above returns. do the math and in case you are not pursuing a large enough opportunity dont pursue raising venture capital from institutional funds. there can still be local angels and alternative sources of financing which can be useful if you really need money but the vcs you read about on techcrunch will shy away from you unless you can show a truly sizable upside potential. . youre the superstar. not the vc. the vc industry is amazing at marketing. the story which is portrayed over and over is that from us you get smart money. together with cash to invest into building out your company we also bring valuable advice connections and sometimes functional expert resources in areas like growth marketing recruiting sales development etc. vcs are superheroes who have proprietary skills and resources entrepreneurs desperately need. but lets set the record straight. vcs will not make your business a success. and vcs oversell their valueadd to entrepreneurs. in reality what vcs provide in ranking order is cash the abilities for you not the vc to access financial resources which you can spend wisely in order to make your company grow faster and stronger. quality validation by securing vc funding you have had an independent professional investor evaluating your companys product team and market and deemed it attractive enough to back. this third party validation creates a halo effect which will help you not the vc to easier hire talent land customers and as we know from the intro of this article get press coverage. advice connections resources any good vc will surely give you valuable advice where they can reflect on previous experiences from companies overcoming similar challenges as youre facing. and they may even have a network through which you eventually land a key client and or hire. id like to think that me and my colleagues in fact do provide this to the companies we work with. this is all great but the ultimate outcome of the company weighs on your shoulders and your abilities not the vcs. successful companies are made because the entrepreneur is fantastic not the vc. successful companies are made because of amazing execution by the people who are deep in the trenches. successful companies are made by entrepreneurs making the right microdecisions every day every hour every minute. strategic advice is easy. execution is hard. so dont feel you need a vc in order to be successful. you are the superstar own it final words the only path of entrepreneurship is not what you read about on techcrunch. building your company independent gives you unlimited options. dont rush into the path of vc funding too soon if you treasure your entrepreneurial freedom. and if you choose to still raise capital make sure the opportunity is massive and have realistic expectations of what your investors can do for you. if you fit this script feel free to reach out to me venture capital entrepreneurship startup funding bootstrapcreative ways to identify new market segments identify new market segmentsregardless of your company size its important to constantly evaluate your market segments in relation to your competitors. identifying segments that either your competitors have missed or are untapped opportunities for you is challenging and requires a wholistic approach that uses both rightbrain and leftbrain thinking. to do this its best to gather a team of employees who work in different departments with different expertise and conduct a few exercises. below are three team exercises that might help your business identify new market segments. mind map get your team to think of the various uses of your product and write them down on a white board. once they come up with an initial list branch out into even more specific uses and brainstorm every possible scenario one could use your product even if it seems absurd. remind everyone that they arent looking for viable segments at this point just fun ideas. if you keep doing this and further soliciting ideas you will eventually come up with some niche segments. now its just a matter of conducting research to see if those segments are a already customers of your competitors and b part of an available market. an available market simply means that you can realistically compete to get those customers. do you have the right resources expertise and location to go after that segment if not scrap that segment and move onto the next. value proposition analysis determine who your competitors customers are and create customer profiles according to demographic geographic psychographic and behavioral characteristics. then write down your competitors value proposition according to cost service and technology. now look at your value proposition according to the same categories. does either companys value proposition address the needs of the niche segments identified in the mind map exercise if not you have a viable segment to target. big wig matching get everyone to shout out big brands that are familiar to everyone. brainstorm words and attributes associated with each brand. now get the team to say which brand they feel is closely associated with your company products and services and then do the same for your competitors. are you positioned where youd like to be or are your competitors associated with brands that you want to be associated with if so do an analysis of their customers and target those segments in your campaigns. what is the productmarket fit and how to measure it sign in get started ux planet user experience ux for beginners user research career publish on ux planet espaol arabic what is the productmarket fit and how to measure it inapptics follow jan min read if you are here reading this then you might be struggling to understand whether your startup is on the right path or not. your understanding of product market fit can give you a lot of useful answers. but the hardest part here is that few people have any idea of this and few people can provide you with specific metrics to measure productmarket fit. so in this article i will try to give you at least some insights into productmarket fit. lets get started with the definition. while a lot of people have come with definitions of product market fit the most cited one by far is marc andreessens definition product market fit means being in a good market with a product that can satisfy that market. sounds too broad right this definition along with the term itself was coined back in. and although it might have some blank spaces in between it is still being circulated as one of the best definitions of product market fit. but what is a good market isnt this something a bit vague markets can be different and categorizing them as roughly good or bad might not be the best strategy so far. andrew chen has an interesting article on this topic. he also discusses what a market is and how to know if its real. in fact according to chen there are three things that are characteristic of a great market a large number of potential users high growth in the number of potential users ease of user acquisition accordingly you can always feel when product market fit is present and when it is not. lets discuss the two scenarios one by one. scenario your customers arent getting a lot of value out of your product. they do not tell their friends family members about it word of mouth advertising does not work. what is worse customer reviews do not seem very positive. the usage of your product is not growing and the sales cycle takes way longer than at the beginning. in addition a whole lot of deals never close. conclusion if this is the case then most probably product market fit is not present. scenario your customers are buying your product new features as fast as they can. the usage is growing rapidly. you are hiring sales and support staff as fast as you can. customer reviews are all or mainly positive. reporters are knocking on all your doors and windows to get an interview with you. your customers users are real brand ambassadors for you. they are selling the product for you through word of mouth. conclusion if this is the case then most probably product market fit is present. how can you measure product market fit there are a few tactics you can use to see whether you have reached pmf or not. more concretely if you want to reach productmarket fit you need to set proper goals. so below are a few metrics that help understand your progress and see how near you are to the completion of your goal. net promoter score image source by this you will be measuring how likely your users are to recommend your product to a friend. this test is all about measuring how much people love your product. the more they love it the more prone to sharing it they will be. constant engagement engagement is the metric that shows how much a user interacts with your product in a given timeframe. if a certain amount of new users starts using your product and then they never stop then you have nailed the engagement. paying users is a significant amount of your users paying money to buy your product or a feature of your product if you are solving a big problem for them then they are sure to pay you money. in addition if you do not solve a big problem well enough you wont be paid. note that this well enough does not only relate to great design. take reddit it has an awful design but it does solve the problem of knowledge sharing for its users. organic user base do you get your users through lots of paid ads and sales efforts or you get them through word of mouth if your existing users are so happy with your product as to tell everyone else about it then organic growth is ensured. fin now you have at least some idea on how to reach productmarket fit. no one said it will be an easy journey. but its definitely worth a tryhow industry leading brands use content to drive lead generationauthorjordan lorelead generationdid you know that only of b b content marketers know what successful or effective content marketing looks like let that sink in. that means that of content marketers are aimlessly creating content without any direction or end goal. this content is not generating traffic leads or sales. so what does proper or effective content marketing look like for businesses that rely on quality leads effective content marketing is a massive opportunity for growth. the right strategies and tactics can have your content working overtime for you. thats why id like to share with you of the primary ways industryleading brands use content to drive lead generation. content lead generation tip sourcespecific landing pages and ctascontent is as much about promotion and distribution as it is creation. so while youre busy getting your content out into the world youll be receiving traffic from many different sources. outbound activities like content syndication and guest posting on websites with large audiences are a big opportunity for site personalization. according to crazyegg landing pages with personalized content convert more than four times better than ones without. take a look below at how groove greets their visitors with source specific messages and content. for a guest post on copyblogger groove set up a landing page filled with targeted content for copyblogger readers. it includes popular blog posts testimonials and a personalized message from groove ceo alex turnbull at the bottom plus an exclusive offer only for copyblogger readers. its one powerful example of how you can combine your content with sourcespecific tactics and drive lead generation. a landing page building tool can help you get landing pages built and published quickly for all of the specific traffic being sent back to your website. its an easy way to add personalization and audiences appreciate it and are more likely to convert as a result. copyblogger landing pagecopyblogger landing pagecontent lead generation tip content upgradescontent upgrades are bonuses attached to a piece of content to incentivize lead generation. in exchange for lead information readers could receivebonus ideas or tacticsa downloadable infographica worksheet or checklista downloadable pdf for offline readingan audio readout of your blog articlea free starter templatesupplementing your content with content upgrades ranks high as an effective lead generation tactic by many marketing pros. the great thing about content upgrades is that theyre flexible and can be applied to almost any type of content. brian dean of backlinko is a big believer in content upgrades and is sure to include them in all of his blog posts. in the example below he includes an encapsulated calltoaction after the intro and lets his readers know that this post is words long and can be downloaded in pdf format for easy reading. infographic blogcreate a list of content upgrade ideas that you could insert into every blog post. even something as simple as a pdf download can contribute to your lead generation efforts. content lead generation tip inline ctascontinuing on with the theme of targeting your audience with content to generate leads inline callstoaction consistently rank as one of the most effective conversion tactics. why inline ctas inline ctas convert much better than others because they directly relate to the content at hand. theyre placed within a piece of content so as to mesh naturally with whatever topic youre touching on. a blog post on instagram best practices for example could include a mention of your new ebook called instagram images done right. after being primed with excellent instagram tips your reader is more likely to convert on an ebook that is related to the topic theyve just read. in the example blog post from enchantingmarketing below the author is elaborating on the most effective copywriting formulas. after detailing a few of the formulas the author makes sure to insert a cta for her book how to write seductive web copy for the reader to convert on. if the reader has read most of the post already and arrived here theyd be much more eager to learn more writing skills. fablook for ways to insert relatable offers content upgrades into your content for an instant spike in conversions. remember that the more it relates to the content youre producing the more impact it will have. wrapping upif youre one of the of marketers out there aimlessly creating content without goals or measurable metrics you need to stop and reassess your strategy. the right content strategies approached in the correct way can effectively drive lead generation. to recap these top three ways leading brands use content to drive lead generation they were. youve decided to start a business but believe that youd be much better off with cofounders. not a bad idea of course. how do you pick the right person this decision may be the most important of your companys entire history. most earlystage startups fail due to founder disputes not the substance of the business. and founders spend so much time together that the business relationship is the closest some of them will ever get to marriage. this is a highoctane highconsequence longterm date. here are the most important things to look for in your entrepreneurial other half. . a complementary temperament. if you tend to run a little hot in a tense moment get yourself a cool hand luke. if youre the staid type the ideal partner is likely someone more charismatic. the point is not that oil should seek water or that opposites must attract. the point is instead to find someone who will fill in the gaps around your personality strengths so that employees partners and investors will see and benefit from the balance. youll discover that different people will cotton to each of you and that pattern will have more to do with the third parties personalities than anything else. diversity on your founding team will give you strength. . different operational skills. if youre a product guru maybe you need a business development or salesoriented leader to get your vision to market. if you are great at the finances an earlystage excel ninja partner probably isnt be the top priority. even within a discipline there are differences in core operational strengths often highly technical businesses will have more than one highly technical cofounder but one of them will for example be a terrific architect while the other will be excellent at rd or engineering. a common tactical error here is for a product or technologyfocused entrepreneur to look for someone with top shelf management consulting experience its not a bad instinct since management consultants are polished and smart but they rarely have core executive chops apart from project management or some general operations background. . similar work habits. you should find someone who shares your expectations on worklife balance. mismatches on hours or effort quickly and reliably lead to resentments. you dont need to be in the office at exactly the same times unless for some reason your business actually requires it as for example in a securities trading house. but you do need to share a view as to how much you will work. . selfsufficiency. your cofounder isnt like any other colleague or employee. she must be fully reliable and selfsufficient someone who functions on autopilot with virtually no input from you. of course this is the ideal description of any person at your company. but for a cofounder this is an absolute requirement. . a history of working together. if possible its best to work with someone youve known for a while or with whom youve collaborated before. easy familiarity helps conversations move quickly and allows trustworthy cooperation. this does not mean you need to work with your best friend of many years. doing so presents its own risks. but a longterm relationship can help you leapfrog the learning curve of the close collaboration which can sometimes take years to develop. that means that selecting a business school sectionmate as your partner just because youre currently in your second mba year together is an extremely bad idea. theres an important caveat here in a cofounding relationship you dont really know the other person till the worm turns. that means you wont see the full color of your partner until something in the business or one of your personal lives goes very badly. if you havent been through the crucible together before be prepared for what she may be like when you do. . emotional buoyancy. things always get tough at one stage or another in a startup or small company. there are bad days bad moments bad deals bad quarters etc. even if youre a passionate and relentless person now and again youll have a tough down day. its excellent if the things that make you feel low arent the same as those that get to your partner. as a founder you cant always show your colleagues when youre having a tough day but you should be able to show your cofounder and she should be able to buoy you when needed. ideally youll be there for her when she needs it because whatever is making her down wont faze you as much. . total honesty. you and your partner must be committed to telling each other the truth all the time even if its tough to say or hear. this requires practice and emotional investment. you cant pick a partner who is afraid to tell you what you need to hear. . comfort in her own skin. insecurity and ego like fear can kill your partnership. the best cofounders are those who know themselves well and are comfortable in their own skins. this will save you from having too frequent difficult arguments about roles and responsibilities. . a personality you like. im surprised at how often this one gets missed. at the end of the day if you dont like your partner all the other great qualities she possesses wont be enough to sustain you through the long haul of building a business. youre going to spend a lot of time with each other probably more than you do with your spouses. . the same overall vision. your cofounder should buy into the central vision for the business you are starting. even after all the many other pieces of the puzzle come together it is essential that your partners main motivations for joining your venture include a passion for the project you are pursuing. there are so many reasons a small business or startup wont succeed. a mismatch between the founders visions should not be one. fun is the best driver of viral growth. lightspeed venture partners medium sign in get started fun is the best driver of viral growth. jeremy liew follow nov min read i love having fun. so do you. none of us have enough delight in our lives. when we find it we want to evangelize it. we want to spread the joy around. this leads to wordofmouth viral growth. snapchat from the beginning is deliberately fun not functional. we use imessage to tell someone youre running late but we use snapchat to send someone a funny selfie that will make them smile. instagram from its infancy is all about delivering joy through beautiful images. its a highlight reel and the filters are designed to make everything look perfect. musical. ly was originally an education social network before the founders realized that lipsynching is much more fun than instructional videos. it grew through word of mouth too. soulcycle transformed indoor cycling from a grind into a dance party on a bike. their devotees love sharing posting and talking about all things soulcycle. the growth of hq trivia has been similarly explosive. via amit shafarir people play together in person and remotely because playing is fun. they are adding the game times to their calendar and inviting their friends because they want to share the excitement. if youre building experiences and looking for word of mouth vitality ask yourself is your product genuinely fun its the best way to grow. snapchat and hq trivia are lightspeed portfolio companies lightspeed venture partners lightspeed is a vc firm focused on accelerating disruptive innovations and trends in the enterprise and consumer sectors. the key traits of highly effective account managersjami oettingwritten by jami. pngwhy working as an account manager is no easy taskan account manager focuses on maintaining the agencyclient relationship by working with the client to develop a business strategy that will fulfill their needs. everybody wants something from them now. some account managers are analytical geniuses. others are charming extroverts. regardless of style there are effective skills account managers should possess. the most effective account managers possess a wide variety of skills. get discovered by clients with a free listing on hubspots agency directoryaccording to the marketing agency growth report of agencies feel one of their greatest struggles is retaining employees. one reason for a high turnover rate is lack of faith in management. here are six key strengths we believe every effective account manager should have key strengths of an account managerrecognizes their constituenciescommunicates wellsees the forest from the treesgets their hands dirtyavoids a cookie cutter approachearns respect recognizes all their constituenciesserving clients is important. critical. but the topnotch account managers get that clients are merely one of their constituencies. first among equals perhaps but still only one group of stakeholders. account managers also have to meet the expectations of the agencys senior management. then of course there are the agencys team members those folks we call the revenue generators. thats a lot of people expectations and needs for an account manager to balance which is why we list this trait first. effective account managers apply every other trait listed here on all the communities they serve. why this matters think of clients senior management and team members as legs of a stool. if any single leg is getting short shrift the entire enterprise is thrown off balance. communicates wellcommunication is sharing and listening. top notch account managers constantly and consistently share the important information whether thats campaign updates to clients client insights to team members to use in campaigns or the state of account health to senior management. they also listen more than they talk. they ask questions to learn whats really going on. and they dont just wait for someone to decide to talk to them. account managers are genuinely concerned with everyones success. they proactively dig into issues and get people to share with them. why this matters no one likes surprises. constant communication means expectations priorities and goals are clear to everyone. sees the forest from the treeseffective account managers hold a breadth of meaningful information regarding both the big picture and the minutiae. they understand all their clients different marketing and business goals. they also know where teams are in executing those campaigns and how campaigns are performing down to key metrics. they can quantify the value their agency is providing the client as well as the value of the client to the agency. even if the account manager cant hold each data point in her head she knows where to find it quickly. why this matters knowledge is power. productive persuasive account managers identify leading metrics to head off challenges before they become problems. they can share successes in real time. knowing in detail whats going on really helps with the whole communicating well thing. gets their hands dirtythe best account managers didnt just jump into the client and project management side of agency work. they spent years on the front lines creating and executing marketing campaigns. they have a track record that gives them credibility and perspective. they keep their hands dirty by staying current in marketing trends and their clients industries. they get into the trenches with team members to understand how theyre working and where their challenges are. why this matters account managers cant speak with authority without first having earned trust and confidence. any account manager who wants to be taken seriously cant helicopter in and out. avoids a cookiecutter approachbecause the effective account managers have deep knowledge and experience they dont retread the same campaigns for every client. they take the time to learn about each client individually their industry the pain points personas messages and goals. they lead rather than manage their clients. and since they work to maintain their level of expertise in the constantly changing world of marketing theyre well positioned to get creative so their clients stand out in a crowded field. why this matters because your agency has to stand out as well. a creative account manager validates your agency as a source of expertise that isnt restricted to rerunning the same campaigns each quarter. earns respectrespect is the foundation of a good relationship. account managers who can move people to action first take the time to get know them in an authentic and personal way. an account manager who builds strong genuine relationships with people can protect a team from getting committed beyond capacity. he understands the internal concerns and motivations of different people on the client side. why this matters when an account manager has rapport and trust he has more influence with teams and clients. this can translate into anything from keeping the client happy with a realistic production schedule to securing needed resources for the team. effective account managers grow accountsthese traits are especially valuable because they do more than help an account manager successfully manage the day to day. when combined these account managers are valued partners who see the opportunities where your agency can provide more value to clients. in turn they are able to then coax more budget from clients to expand the exisiting relationships. if youre involved in the startup world youve probably heard the term lean startup thrown around. no its not a new weight loss plan although i wouldnt doubt that there are health and fitness apps out there who have used lean startup methodology. its a system for creating a business that was first introduced by entrepreneur eric ries in and then outlined in his book the lean startup how todays entrepreneurs use continuous innovation to create radically successful business. in our article startup books every founder should read lauren foundos founder ceo fort said the following the lean startup is an incredible book because it recounts the experience of eric ries. he highlights his mistakes in an effort to help you avoid making the same mistakes. he discusses the importance of understanding your target audience creating an mvp focusing on actionable metrics and knowing when to adapt and iterate without wasting too much time. all of his advice is extremely valuable and helpful in order to avoid common founder mistakes. for the entire lean startup methodology and philosophy you should definitely go read that book. seriously it will change your approach to business. but for a quick overview maybe just to pique your interest and see if this is a model youre interested in keep reading. where did lean startup come from lean startup methodology it started with risk. risk is the characteristic that distinguishes a startup from any other type of business. imagine the experience of quitting a stable secure job to venture into the unknown. its terrifying and if youre reading this blog post you know how terrifying this experience is because youve probably done it. thats why eric ries wrote the lean startup to help companies navigate and minimize these risks through minimum viable products mvps rigorous experimentation and a commitment to learning. at its core adhering to the lean startup methodology is all about creating a sustainable business with minimal waste of both time and money. this concept grew out of two things two failed businesses in ries own portfolio and the streamlined process of creating cars that was developed in japan after world war ii. in the case of ries failures he saw that hed spent a lot of time and money building products without ever confirming that those products were solving a real problem. guess what happened you got it they flopped. in the japanese model of building cars which involves reducing and eliminating waste in order to get the end product to the customer at the lowest cost for highest value ries saw a system that could be applied to entrepreneurship. as eric puts it we have to change our notion of what a modern company looks like. disruptive innovation comes from crossfunctional teams comfort with failure and a rigorous commitment to learning. every company large or small can become a startup. entrepreneurship is a crucial function for almost any type of organization. lean startup methodology build measure learnlean startup methodology entrepreneurs that practice the lean startup methodology are encouraged to question everything from their initial idea to their design choices to any features theyre considering adding. in following this process entrepreneurs discover their minimal viable product mvp which ries encourages to release to a select group of test customers to determine what improvements need to be made. a good example of an mvp that fits within lean startup philosophy is a smoke test site which can be used to validate interest in your product or service while offering a low barrier to entry. a smoke test site is one that is just a facade. it looks like its a real service but its really just a flat site with no backend nothing built out and no real actions. they can be used easily to track and estimate demand for your business idea and to help gather contact information for people who may be interested. the point of this site is to see if anyone tries to buy. while the mvp is often extremely minimalistic the feedback from the initial group of test customers helps entrepreneurs learn whats working understand what isnt and figure out what direction they should go. the general idea is that startup founders should follow the model which ries has named buildmeasurelearn repeatedly with the goal of turning that mvp into a sustainable business. oftentimes that feedback leads founders to pivot from one idea market or niche to another in their quest for a great product. innovation is a high risk sport on an idea by idea basis but you can dramatically increase the quality and reliability of your outcomes in the way you manage new concepts. creating structured ideas and then figuring out creative ways to test them is central to the lean startup movement not to mention the scientific method itself. and it turns out its a great way to innovative even if youre short on resources. buildmeasurelearn is a researchintensive process that can be emotionally fraught as creators have to be willing to not only put their creations out into the world before theyre finished but also take feedback and implement it. however if done properly the lean startup methodology can lead to a company that serves its clients needs is sustainable and is verified before the founder even starts looking for funding. ries website cites dropbox as a prime example of a big company that used his methodology to get where they are today. why build measure learn isnt just throwing things against the wall to see if they workthe goal of buildmeasurelearn is not to build a final product to ship or even to build a prototype of a product but to maximize learning through incremental and iterative engineering. learning could be about product features customer needs the right pricing and distribution channel etc. the build step refers to building a minimal viable product an mvp. its critical to understand that an mvp is not the product with fewer features. rather it is the simplest thing that you can show to customers to get the most learning at that point in time. this fivepart version of the buildmeasurelearn diagram helps us see that the real intent of building is to test ideas not just to build blindly without an objective. build measure learnthe circle labeled code could easily be labeled build hardware or build artificial genome. the circle labeled data indicates that after we measure our experiments well use the data to further refine our learning. and the new learning will influence our next ideas. so we can see that the goal of buildmeasurelearn isnt just to build things the goal is to build things to validate or invalidate the initial idea. the focus on testing specific ideas counters the concern that buildmeasurelearn is just throwing things against the wall and see if they work. what buildmeasurelearn misses is that new ventures both startups and new ideas in existing companies dont start with ideas they start with hypotheses a fancy word for guesses. its important to understand that the words idea and hypotheses mean two very different things. for most innovators the word idea conjures up an insight that immediately requires a plan to bring it to fruition. in contrast a hypothesis means we have an educated guess that requires experimentation and data to validate or invalidate. that the lean startup begins with acknowledging that your idea is simply a series of untested hypotheses is a big idea. its a really big idea because what you build needs to match the hypothesis you want to test. the minimum viable product youll need to build to find the right customers is different from the minimum viable product you need for testing pricing which is different from an mvp you would build to test specific product features. and all of these hypotheses and minimal viable products change over time as you learn more. so instead of buildmeasurelearn the diagram for building minimal viable products in a lean startup looks like hypotheses experiments tests insights. hypothesis design experiments test insightslean startup methodology pushbacklean startup methodology since the release of ries book in there has been some pushback against the lean startup methodology. one criticism is that its too easy to oversimplify a valid criticism. there have been thousands of blog posts written about lean startup including obviously this one and blogs tend toward simplification. thats just the nature of the beast. but while lean startup might seem simple and the basic elements certainly are its a complex system. and like any system you cant just pick and choose the parts that you like and leave the rest. if youre interested in using the lean startup methodology to build your next venture do the research. read the books. really study the methodology. its a researchintensive process so consider this initial step a test to see if youre up for the challenge. if you find yourself faltering you might want to consider another approach. and while its popularity might make it seem ubiquitous lean startup also isnt the only model out there for launching a company. check out the lean analytics model the effectuation model and the timmons model for other examples of possible ways to build a successful startup. musthave skills startup founders cant live without. the todo list is neverending especially if youre running a startup. here are five key areas for entrepreneurs to focus on when rapidly trying to grow a business. by sangram vajre cofounder and cmo terminus sangramvajre getty images in a world where we are constantly checking the todo list and racing from one meeting to another how do successful startup founders entrepreneurs and ceos manage to stay focused and rapidly grow a business its about knowing where to start by defining what the matters most to grow the business as quickly as possible and center your efforts there. here are the five musthave skills every startup founder should hone. vision if you dont have a vision for what you want your organization to achieve its going to take a miracle for your team to follow along on your journey. the vision must extend to every aspect of the company from the branding and messaging to the product and team you hire. most importantly the startup leader must live the vision. this starts with being crystal clear about the problem youre solving with your investors customers and staff at every level. embody the vision and your team will follow. salesforce. com ceo marc benioff is a great example of living out his vision. hes done a fabulous job building not only a transformational company but a category too. . funding once you have a vision for what you want to achieve knowing howand whento raise money is critical to businessbuilding. one of the biggest traps a startup leader can fall into is failing to recognize when their company is running out of money. a ceo has to understand his companys burn rate in order to determine when its going to need an influx of capital. startup leaders should be checking their burn rates weekly at least. this is key you do not want to raise money when youre broke because you lose your negotiating leverage with investors. ceos who miss this point will burn out before they can extend their runways. . hiring no one said this better than jim collins get the right people on the bus first. people is what companies are made of not technology or processes. your people define your culture and great people can be the difference between great companies and good companies. wrong hires can literally be the death of certain companies as they could be a drain. the biggest consideration when hiring is always fit. ive made the mistake of hiring people who look great on paper but didnt fit our culture. in retrospect it wouldve been better to not hire those people at all. startup ceos must emphasize culture first and job title second. the reverse can be costly. . experience dharmesh shah cofounder and cto of hubspot wrote a thoughtprovoking post on how the ceo should be the chief experience officer and it makes sense. this is especially true for startup ceos. youre being pulled in a hundred directions. failing to recognize the importance of delighting rather than satisfying customers can be a death knell. selling product is crucial of course but if the customer isnt successful he or she will churn eventually. its the responsibility of the startup ceo to ensure that the sales team understands not just what theyre selling but how. are they selling features or value are they delighting customers are they proactive with them its not about features and functions. creating a meaningful experience can be a companys most important differentiator. . leadership one of the key parts of being a startup leader is being fired upso much so that because youre fired up everyone around you feels your energy. this should come across every time you shake someones hand share a story talk to a customer meet a new employee or even send an email. what matters is how much you believe in what you do. you cant fake inspiration. amazing leaders like dr. martin luther king jr. and muhammad ali spent enormous amounts of time perfecting every word in their speeches and how they spoke those words because they knew they wanted to inspire people. just remember you cant fake leadership. you have to have it in you or you wont be respected or trusted as a leader. to recap these five key areas of focus for startup leaders ceos and entrepreneurs. vision dream big and share your dream with your team investors and customers. funding watch that burn rate know when to raise funds or reign in spending. hiring bring on new team based on who they are and not just job titles. experience surprise and delight all your customers both internal and external. leadership believe in what you do and others will too by paying attention to these core skills startup ceos will be more prepared to weather the storms of competition product issues and unpredictable customer demand. what is employee experience as we shift to the future of work where organizations are focusing on the reasons why employees want to work versus need to work it is important to understand employee experience. a lot of organizations historically have focused only on one aspect of organizational change and that is culture. this is how employees feel when they are inside of an organization the vibe that they get the organizational structure leadership style compensation and benefits etc. while culture is a part of the employee experience it is only a third. employee experience is the combination of three distinct things that exist within any organization regardless of industry size and location. the other parts of employee experience are the technological environment and the physical environment. the technological environment is the tools an employee needs to do their job including the user interface mobile devices and desktop computers. an organization should provide relevant and modern tools that allow employees to get their job done. the physical environment includes anything that can be seen heard touched and tasted like the desks chairs art and meals. this is crucial because employees spend most of their time inside the organization so it should have a positive effect on them. all three of these aspects should be focused on to create an environment where people want to show upwhat is a product manager actually alex valaitis medium visual design what is a product manager actually alex valaitis follow oct min read while my company has certainly influenced a lot of my thinking in this area it is important to note that the contents below reflect my opinion and not that of my employer. background in many ways the role of a product manager remains an enigma. many companies have only begun inserting the role into their organizations in recent years and very few companies incorporate the role correctly. as a result the role of a product manager has been misconstrued and practiced incorrectly by many in the industry. i am fortunate to be working for a company in intuit that has truly mastered the art of product management over the years and i wish to share my learnings so that others may improve their craft as well. after all better product managers leads to better products and we all win when we have better products in our lives. i also want to clarify that the type of product manager i will be describing is one that generally works in the technology space but more specifically works with software products. what a product manager is not before diving into what a product manager is i think it is important to start by laying out what a pm is not. i see many people label themselves as pms but when they describe their role to me it is far from being that of a pm. i cringe when this happens because it further contorts the perception of the role in the industry. here are a list of incorrect pm descriptions i commonly encounter a product manager is not a software developer or engineer if you spend most of your day writing code or building product then you are a developer engineer not a pm. you should rarely if ever be doing these tasks. the reason is that there are far too many other tasks that you need to be doing with your time and they will not get completed if a pm does not own them. a product manager is not a designer similar to engineering or development design is a separate function of its own. while it never hurts to churn out some high fidelity mockups as a pm this is a space that should ideally be owned by experience designers xd. in some small organizations there may be exceptions however in an ideal scenario this work should not be owned exclusively by a pm. a product manager is not a software architect the how is not decided by a pm. it never hurts to have the technical expertise to keep up and make suggestions however the highlevel software design choices and technical standards should be driven by someone who is completely dedicated to this area. a product manager is not an analyst or a consultant if youre not driving a team thats building product then you are not a pm. period. while there may be stretches of time where you do hands off research and analysis say in the discovery stages of a product this should not be the nature of your work for extended periods of time. a product manager is not any of these things either customer support marketing project program manager data scientist sales etc. for various reasons a product manager is not any of the things listed above either. while a solid pm will interact with many of these functions no single one of these areas should be commanding the majority of your time in the long run. one last example a product manager is not an authoritarian figure as a product manager you have no authority over other people. while you do drive decisions and the product vision you cant force others to follow it. as a pm you must lead through influence. one of my biggest triggers is when i see a pm trying to lead with authority instead of influence. attempting to strongarm developers or designers into doing what you want will always lead to poor products in the long run. so what is a product manager actually now that we have a solid understanding of all of the things that a product manager is not lets deep dive into what a product manager actually is. ive heard a lot of people try to describe the role in different ways but perhaps the best analogy i have heard is the following a product manager is the quarterback of a product. source. wbur. org ive heard the phrase ceo of the product tossed around but i think it is a poor analogy. a product manager does not have authoritative control over a team similar to how a quarterback does not control the football team. she cant bench any of her teammates if they dont execute the plays she calls only the coach can do that. another major difference is that unlike ceos product managers are down in the trenches executing with the team. it is not merely a strategic role for setting highlevel vision since you have to get your hands dirty on a daily basis. another correlation between a pm and a quarterback is that you need to be able to work with and have the trust of the entire team. each drive a quarterback may interact with the running back offensive line tight ends and widereceivers. it is not an isolated position that only has one focus. similarly a pm must gain the trust of the entire team and be able to work crossfunctionally in order to guarantee the success of a product. ultimately a quarterback is responsible for calling plays based on the information they see in front of them and are required to make quick decisions on the fly to ensure that a drive is successful. in a nutshell that is what a product manager is expected to do for a product. what does a product manager do im sure there are some people reading this that are rolling their eyes right now so i want to conclude by giving a rundown of what a product manager actually does. this isnt a simple explanation since a pms daily work activities can morph depending on what stage of the product development life cycle they are in. generally speaking there are different phases that pms will find themselves in discovery planning and execution. discovery phase before a team can begin building product someone must go out and discover what needs to be built. a product manager is tasked with finding the most important problems and defining which of them should be solved. generally speaking there are two sources that pms can use during the discovery phase data and customers. if you already have an existing product and are looking to build out new features or capabilities data can give you clues as to where the product opportunities will be. great pms know how to use analytics tools to access fingertip data and how to enlist the support of data scientists or analytics teams for deeper data dives. often times data is too muddy or small in order to draw product conclusions. that is why it is important to supplement quantitative insights with feedback from customers. customer interviews are a great way to gain qualitative feedback from current or prospective users. product managers should seek to to spend a significant amount of time with customers during the discovery phase of the product life cycle. planning phase after pouring through data and spending time with customers it is up to a product manager to help prioritize which products or features are worth pursuing. unfortunately all companies have limited time and resources so it is essential that pms define the right priorities for the company to pursue. the larger the company a pm operates in the more involved the planning phase will be. because there are so many moving pieces it is not always as straightforward as picking the most data or customerbacked projects to pursue. organizations must factor in other internal projects technical requirements time of year budgets risk factors etc. due to the importance of the planning stage pms will most likely find themselves in numerous meetings with leadership and other relevant stakeholders. during these meetings pms will present their findings and suggestions for the road map while working towards gaining approval from leadership. more often than not these meetings are taking place while the rest of the team continues to execute on the current initiatives. execution phase image credit sean oconnor outside of discovery and planning a product manager will spend the majority of her time in the execution phase. i borrowed the graphic above from a fellow pm at intuit because i think it does a great job of laying out where a pm sits during the execution phase of a product. starting with the build section a pm is expected to work closely with the development and design functions. at intuit we refer to this as the product triad. a pm will complete a number of activities while working with the triad including working with designers to craft mock ups defining requirements for developers tracking development processes and running usability tests with customers. the build cycle should never really end for a product since teams should constantly be seeking to improve their products. once a product is built it is important that a pm works with marketing and design to ensure that the product gets the right exposure in the marketplace. a pm is important to this phase as he will understand what aspects of the product need to be emphasized in order to excite potential users. lastly a pm should be in close contact with support operations to ensure that the product is functioning well at all times. service outages crashes and bugs are all issues that inevitably arise with any software product. a pm must closely track these issues and ensure that they do not get in the way of a great user experience. conclusion unlike many other functions if a pm were to stop coming in to work one day the team probably wouldnt feel the effects right away. however over time the lack of pm expertise would shine through in the products that are delivered to market. the truth is that almost any person can be a product manager however very few people can become great product managers. the job is effort discipline and raw talent. if you think you have what it takes i encourage you to try bonus read good product manager bad product manager k product management software development startup agile product development k claps written by alex valaitis follow product manager. boxology the mythical science of organizational changemay by alignorgaltering the organizations structure might be necessary but approaching change by changing the organization chart alone is insufficient in most cases. over the years a pseudoscience has emerged that focuses on finding the perfect organization chart. we call this boxology. even if a perfect organization chart did exist with the right spans of control optimal layers of management proper placement of talent clear decision rights etc. structure is just one aspect of organization design. organizations are complex systems with changes in one area cascading and sometimes setting off changes throughout the entire system. moreover organizations operate in complex environments with market forces competitors behaviors and regulatory requirements demanding that an organization continually change and adapt. one risk of boxology is that it ignores the interdependency of organizational components like work culture structure metrics rewards etc. it ignores the deep connections of those components to forces at play in the organizations environment. it also ignores the reality of how work is done who makes decisions and how resources are allocated. truly effective organization design is about finding the optimal alignment of all of these componentsnot simply trying to optimize the structure of the organization. indeed structure only enables or disables strategy. in and of itself structure doesnt create or deliver value to the customer. companies dont usually transform themselves into their aspirations unless leaders have thoughtfully considered the dynamics of their business environment the changing needs of customers and the degree to which their current capabilities and talent can successfully meet those conditions. leaders need to make fundamental strategic choices and then align the org structure and the many systems of the organization technological systems reward and compensation systems recruiting and talent management systems etc. to that strategy. they need to align decisionmaking rights resource allocation even assess the culture of an organization in order to reach the new desired state. its a little more complicated than moving boxes. the power of bad product ideas by chris massey on march steve portigal challenges product managers to rethink the ideageneration process by inviting in bad ideas. in brainstorming sessions we frequently see two surges in ideas. the first is where the low hanging fruit is identified. the second surge is where more innovative ideas are frequently found. welcoming bad ideas can be an effective strategy for fast tracking past the low hanging fruit and into innovation. steves interactive talk encourages product managers to come up with the worst product ideas possible. not the ideas that are just not that good but ones that are really truly terrible. by starting with a bad idea steve opens a safe creative space for ideas sharing. he helps product people to unpack what is good and bad why and who gets to decide. he encourages us to step away from the binary of good and bad to move around the problem space in a different way. his bad ideas approach also breaks the ideageneration ice by starting with something terrible space is opened for all ideas allowing creativity to flow. sharing terrible ideas steve identifies two types of bad idea sharing proactive disruption vs tentative unfinished ideas and encourages us to recognise and support those who share both. the first type of sharing breaks open space for a different approach to your problem or market. the second invites you to listen collaborate and make a bad thing good. bad ideas expose our own beliefs about what the criteria are for good and bad and force us to reassess. bad ideas can go good context is everything and ultimately bad can only be judged by the marketplace. if an idea is stupid but it works its not stupid. steves talk encourages you to be open to surprises and to capture new energy in your team by being playful with the ideas generation process and laughing as you go. pt. which methodology should you hire to apply jobs to be done sign in get started frameplay jobs to be done about frameplay frameplay innovation consultancy pt. which methodology should you hire to apply jobs to be done andrea f hill follow nov min read one day alice came to a fork in the road and saw a cheshire cat in a tree. which road do i take she asked. where do you want to go was his response. i dont know alice answered. then said the cat it doesnt matter. heard about jobs to be done maybe you picked up clay christensens book competing against luck or youve seen the jtbd hashtag on twitter. youre interested in this idea that customers want to make progress in their lives and they hire products to help them get that job done and how it can help you make progress. unfortunately this seemingly simple little theory has amassed a daytimetelevisionworthy level of intrigue and drama. little jtbd has at least two men who can lay claim to have originated the approach and others who have raised it as their own and expect some credit too. the irony of course is what the argument is over. laying claim to the belief that customers dont care about your product. they care about what it helps them do. the product in question the right approach to surfacing and applying jtbd insights. as an innovation and strategy consultant my goal is to help my clients consistently create winning products. im purposely methodologyagnostic. that being said i see a lot of value in looking at problems through the jobs to be done lens. over the next few days ill be releasing a series of posts on the different flavors of jtbd and how to decide which is most appropriate to help you meet your innovation goals. im open to feedback suggestions and criticisms to make this series content more accurate. my goal is to help others pick up on the nuances of these approaches so they can make focus on making progress on their own innovation journey. i want to start a company but i havent found a great idea. i hear this a lot. even among entrepreneurs who have started companies many of them focus on the novelty of the idea. which is understandable especially within the character attention span we now live in. able to be summarized into elevator sized pitches the misplaced emphasis on the idea results in entrepreneurs spending too many hours rewriting a handful of words hoping people will get it. wanting the listener to acknowledge the huge potential its easy to get paralyzed trying to justify why their idea is smarter than the next. this is the wrong way to think about it. the reality is that initial ideas are often irrelevant. like clay being sculpted on a spinning wheel it takes a lot of trying learning and adjusting to turn initial instincts into a masterpiece. it can even require starting over along the way until you really understand the potential of what you are building. as reminds us the trouble with innovation is that truly innovative ideas often look like bad ideas at the time. so how do you generate an idea that is strong enough to start a company forget about your idea the hardest part is to begin with an unbiased opinion. starting this process with a pre determined idea shuts out your ability to really understand the essence of the problem. it becomes so personal that you cant separate the true opportunity from your own desire to be right. being stuck to an idea results in mistakes like these your customer research is tainted with questions like would you use a service that does blah. a yes makes you feel good but doesnt actually help you understand the customers problem. your pricing is based on asking people if they would pay x for your imaginary product. a question that doesnt truly gets answered until people pay you money. you raise too much money before your product sticks. investor interest doesnt necessarily mean customers will love what you build. you brand your company the product wanting to make no mistake that people will know what your service does. except when you have to change your product you then realize the name you spent months driving awareness for now has nothing to do with the final direction of the company. start with the problem ultimately you want to understand the problem better than anyone else. having a distinct advantage in customer understanding enables you to deliver a solution that no one else would conclude. peter thiel calls this developing a secret. there are a variety of ways to discover an interesting problem. personally i first list what im passionate about and second explore problems within these passions. starting with a pen and paper i start building lists. . what are you passionate about these can be activities i. e. being active experiences i. e. listening to music tools i. e. cameras efficiencies i. e. ways to save time. utilities i. e. clothing interactions i. e. meeting new people or even consumables i. e. food. i find there are about areas everyone is super passionate about and if they pick a problem to solve in one of these arenas they will be significantly more motivated. the last list i personally built enabling people to start their own business music staying active photography traveling local food experiences moment began from my passion for taking pictures. . a day in the life a second way is to walking through your day listing out all the things you do where you do them and what tools you use. if you want to solve a problem that every one has likely the problem will be associated with one of these key parts of your life. as you build a list you can start brainstorming things that frustrate you that you find broken or that you would love to make better within each of these areas. map the customer journey picking one item from the list you can start to explore the problems through the entire journey. thinking about what happens before during and after you begin to identify interesting problems to solve. as an example my wife and i are passionate about traveling. we have found that discovering new places brings us closer together. always trying to find local off the beaten path locations we have spent a lot of time in other countries. mapping out our typical travel experience i list out the interactions before we travel while we travel and what happens afterwards. starting with a longer list id reduce our travel routine down discover finding new inspiring places to visit. travel from coordinating to experiencing adventures. remember enabling us and loved ones to remember the trip. starting with how we accomplish these tasks today i can begin to find dozens of interesting problems to solve. thinking about what is broken frustrating or a poor experience i start sketching out potential solutions. this cycle can continue for weeks until i have a concentric circle that represents what i would build before during and after. and within that framework will be an initial problem that i believe i can solve better than anyone. if i was to build a startup in the travel space it would probably be around enabling travelers with better tools to discover local authentic experiences. getting people excited about the vision of enabling is a much easier than trying to convince everyone why my travel idea and its key features are genius enough to join. frequency vs pain if you are building consumer based products i use a matrix that compares the frequency people have this problem daily to never against the type of pain physical to emotional that customers feel. the more frequent the problem occurs the more important your product will become. here is how i break down the quadrants upper left a physical pain that doesnt happen very often i. e. a heart attack. upper right a physical pain that happens daily i. e. taking insulin. lower left an emotional pain that doesnt happen often i. e. buying a car. lower right an emotional pain that happens often i. e. too many emails. most of the products that startups build fall into the bottom half of this quadrant. these solutions provide emotional and or mental benefit to the customers. personal travel would fall in the lower left quadrant. although personal traveling makes people happy it happens so infrequently that its hard to build a sustainable business. unless you focus on business travelers the average person is lucky to take a handful of trips in a year. find a passionate niche im a big believer in finding a passionate niche that you can own. even though investors will want to know when your idea is mass market its important to build creditability with an avid user base. creating true fans is really hard and if you try to move past this group too early your company has the risk of becoming irrelevant. just look at apple with creatives. sportscenter with tis hour sports fans. grabcad with engineers. firefox with the open source community. twitter with the tech community. instagram with photographers. these companies anchored their brand and initial products within a passionate group of users which were obsessed with using their product on a daily basis. look for a wave how big can this be is the first question that investors will ask you. even more important than team hitting a market with avid customers at the right time is critical. as marc andreesen says you can obviously screw up a great market and that has been done and not infrequently but assuming the team is baseline competent and the product is fundamentally acceptable a great market will tend to equal success and a poor market will tend to equal failure. market matters most. but trying to predict how big your company is going to be especially early on is a self actualizing process. searching google for random market numbers doesnt actually give you confidence that you have hit the opportunity at the right time. instead i believe what chris dixon wrote a few years ago about sizing the market based on a narrative. being in front of a rising wave is the right place to be. the action camera market is a great example. when contour and gopro started there was no wave behind action video. myspace was just beginning youtube didnt exists and consumers werent carrying computers in their pockets. the initial market was reserved for adrenaline junkies who were willing to strap a lens on their helmet and spend countless hours downloading their footage on expensive computers. all of that changed with the arrival of social media. the need to prove status likes and audience size created a tidal wave of demand for designated cameras that could capture the most amazing adventures. the more interesting the content the more popular the users could become. without social its questionable if gopro would be the b company that it is today. examples of other waves stance socks differentiating ourselves continues to drive shopping decisions. beats by dre the continued growth in mobile music and the subsequent need for better consumption tools. box the once in a lifetime shift in how people work. instagram the. b consumers with cameras in their pockets need a place to share their pictures. start with projects its very hard to sit down and come up with a world changing job quitting idea. the journey to what you ultimately build is an organic path that shapes over time. even the tools to understand the customer their needs and the right market are merely guides. ultimately you learn the most when you put a product in someones hands. if you have a day job start working on side projects with people you like. and if you dont have friends who want to work on side projects attend a startup weekend and meet dozens of people that share your same passion to build. at some point this journey will lead you to an interesting problem that aligns your passion with a need that millions of people share. focus on the problem not the idea. small businesses often find themselves in a challenging situation. these businesses have a great need for reliable answers to important questions that all organizations face how are market trends impacting my business how does our target market make buying decisions what is our market share and how can we increase it how does customer satisfaction with our products or services measure up to that of the competition how will our existing customers respond to a new product or service how can we attract new customer segments what marketing strategies will work best placeholder blocked. reason no sizes in order to get answers to these questions companies conduct marketing research using a variety of methods. this article will outline some of these methods and illustrate how they can benefit a small business. all have some value but it is important to know the limitations of each technique. i. secondary research this type of research involves looking at information that has already been conducted and published by exploring a few different types of resources. demographics and statistics this information can be helpful to businesses when trying to learn more about the geographic areas in which they operate or those into which it would make sense to expand. where are other people like my current customers where are there people who are a little different from my customer base but might find my product valuable im introducing a new product to an entirely new market where do these prospects live is the size of the potential market big enough to make the investment into a new product worthwhile placeholder blocked. reason no sizes similarly this type of research called statistical profiling also benefits business to business marketers. for example if you are selling to businesses locally you can expand your base by finding other areas where there is a high concentration of similar businesses. or you may have been selling to one type of industry but you think companies in a different industry will also buy your product. here are some free online resources that can help you find these businesses and get relevant statistics placeholder blocked. reason no sizes bureau of labor statistics internet public library fed stats american marketing association demographic statistics demographic data by zip code for every u. s. state. existing research reports often businesses have questions that involve trends in their markets. for example which customers are adapting the lastest technology how is internet usage changing among mature adults there may already be a report that was conducted that can give you some general information into your industry and specific market. by doing a search on online research reports you can find a listing of companies that provide these reports. usually they do come at a cost but may be less expensive than doing a study from scratch. a good idea is to first peruse the table of contents that often comes with these reports before buying in order to get an idea as to whether the purchase would be justified. . marketing researcher tools why not go where the pros do by utilizing these sites you can ask questions of marketing professionals and use the tools they do. there are some excellent resources available again some of which require a fee but others do not. marketing sherpa. com marketingprofs. com ii. primary research at some point all businesses need to ask specific questions of their customers as well as those individuals who are not their customers in order to make decisions regarding their business and marketing strategy. this is where research can get expensive though. many small businesses do not have resources required for studies that deliver the most unbiased accurate data. however there are ways that companies can get guidance and direction for marketing strategy based on customer feedback. . talk to your customers is there any more direct less expensive way to go ask your customers questions when they purchase from you if you can do so in a way that is not cumbersome for them and doesnt take a lot of their time. what made them purchase from you how did they hear about you make it worth their time to give you feedback perhaps a discount on their next order. and let them know that their feedback will help you serve them better in the future which it should. and many small businesses overlook or discount input from their direct salesforce a resource that can generate some of the best ideas for new products due to close customer contact. . web logs or blogs this is a great way to get customer feedback. start a blog on your company website tell your customers about it and post information about your products and services. i know what youre thinking though what if my customers have negative reactions about what i post wont my warts be available for all to see marketing diva toby bloomberg recently had a post on her own blog about just this issue. as she points out your customers talk anyway isnt it better to see what theyre saying so you can respond and toby makes a great point negative comments are an excellent way of showing how you respond to customer concerns. . yahoo groups start a group for your customers. this is a great way for them to talk to each other and exchange information. at the same time you get to see what theyre saying without them necessarily knowing that youre peeking. additionally some customers can start conversations that allow you to get insights into their interests more valuable information that can help you in your product service development efforts. these groups can also exchange tips about using the product or service some which may have never occurred to you. . inperson forums conferences this is a great way to educate and entertain your customers and provide them value for their attendance at an offline function. while the methods above can often limit the amount of information you get from your customers these forums and conferences allow you to explore various issues in a more indepth way. user conferences also can give you a great opportunity to introduce your customers to new uses for your product or service by highlighting customer success stories and case studies for presentation. however as noted above these resources usually do not provide completely accurate and unbiased information and to get this type of customer data youll need to use more structured and traditional methods. unbiased quantifiable information can be very powerful in planning your marketing strategy. and every successful business needs to and will get to this stage at some point. the trick is not to wait very long because your competitors can start getting the answers before you do. in general there are two main types of traditional primary research studies each with its own benefits. qualitative these studies also often called exploratory research allow you to research issues with customers in an indepth manner. while qualitative studies usually arent designed to give you precise answers they can give you great insight into the behavior of your customers their rationale for making decisions and factors that can motivate them to purchase. there are various forms of qualitative studies including focus groups oneonone interviews and newer techniques called ethnography. what sets these apart from the user conferences mentioned above are several factors they are typically led by an objective moderator so participants often will provide more honest and less biased feedback. a trained professional can also handle different types of respondents from those who tend to be very vocal to those who are less likely to speak. they are in a controlled setting and the moderator has a predefined script so that the most important issues at hand are addressed. a variety of techniques can be used in order to get at the thinking behind customer discussions and behavior. these studies can be done both on the internet and in person. a qualified professional can help you to determine the right method to use and the costs for your particular situation. . quantitative often businesses need guidance on a set of marketing issues that require clearly defined measures for example advertising spending distribution channel usage pricing decisions segmentation sizes and the product or service message that should be launched first. surveys and questionnaires can give you a great deal of accuracy when asking marketing questions that require this level of detail for sound decisionmaking. for example which product will generate the highest level of interest are there differences between different segments and how are these differences are best defined what price should you set how often will people purchase there are some great online tools you can use to develop your own surveys here are just a few that offer free versions survey monkey zoomerang cool surveys however it is important to note that according to the small business administration website much primary research particularly surveys interviews and questionnaires is best left to marketing professionals as they can usually get more objective and sophisticated results. conclusion every organization needs to conduct research and small budgets are no excuse for lack of a research plan. by starting out with some easily accessible resources you can begin to develop better marketing strategies that can position you for market growth. about the author joy levin is the president of allium research and analytics a marketing research consulting firm. with years of experience she works with companies of all sizes in various industries to develop and implement research solutions that give them answers to their marketing challenges and provide strategic direction. growth hacking how to implement an a b testing modelby chelsea segalgrowth hacking how to implement an a b testing model sharesfacebooktwitterlinkedinredditprintbufferpocketas a growth hacker you need to cultivate a sense of scientific curiosity. almost every element of your marketing strategy or business plan canand shouldbe viewed as an experiment with the data guiding your next move. even lackluster or failed experiments tell you a lot about whats working whats not and what direction to try next. the epitome of a growth hackers scientific mindset is a b testing or split testing. in this model you divide your audience or customer base into two groups with one acting as a control group. each group receives a distinct version of your email campaign landing page discount offer or the like and you carefully track each versions performance. by looking at the results you can tweak your strategy as needed then go on to test another element. optimization testinga b optimization testing is used to try out how changes to a minor element of an existing process affect customer engagement. the goal is to optimize the impact of that process getting the best results with the lowest cost to your company. most frequently a b testing is used to test how different versions of one digital marketing campaign perform for example the two groups see two different designs of a website or receive two variants of the same email blast. typically optimization tests compare the resultsmeasured in clickthroughs email opens social engagement conversions or by some other metricof minute changes to design wording or visual elements. does a long email subject or a shorter one result in more opens does a green button or a red button get more clicks does a facebook post with an image get more likes than one without because the tests measure audience engagement or other results based on very small changes with little or no cost for each test companies may perform many thousands of a b tests per year. the data from testing then informs the next campaign. structuring an a b testlike any good experiment a b testing is rooted in the scientific method. a refresher course on the scientific method ask a question based on observation and research. make a hypothesis about the answer to this question. next formulate testable predictions collect data and use the data to measure the accuracy of your hypothesis. growth hacking and any digital marketing has an added step here tweak your test based on results. then retest retest retest. once you have come up with come up with a question and a hypothesisand done some background research into your audiences current behaviors using analyticsits time to design your test. some factors to consider changes per variationhow much will version b differ from the control groups you can make many changes from the a version to b or more typically just one. single changes may take longer to see results or may not show results as dramatic as a total overhaul but its easier to track responses and the causes of responses. when making many changes any one of them could be prompting the result youre seeing. metric for datahow will you measure your results if you are testing the effectiveness of an email campaigns subject line for example it makes sense to use the metric of number of email opens. if youre testing a change to an onboarding procedure on the other hand signups or other forms of conversion provide your data. test scopewhat is the scale and timeline of your test when testing something small like a change in the wording of email copy results will be evident very quickly. use a tool like vwos a b split and multivariate test duration calculator or evan millers sample size calculator to determine either how many days you will run the test or how many audience members you will include in your sample. segmentationwho will be the subjects of your test if you have a good sense of how your audience is segmented you can run a b tests on one specific part of your audience or set up one portion as your a group and one as the b group. strategic a b testingstrategic testing applies the same principles of optimization testing to larger more important elements of your marketing strategy or even your entire business philosophy. if you are launching a new product offering new pricing or changing your branding strategy the stakes of such a change are high. it makes sense to test this kind of big move with a small part of your audience first before deploying it across the board. strategic tests tend to be run much less frequently than optimization testing the stakes in terms of profits and marketing budget are much higher the moving pieces are bigger a new brand strategy takes a long time to change and then to see results and more people are involved. but there are definite benefits to testing a strategic change on a small target audience it gives you a sense of whether the initiative will succeed with your entire consumer base and helps you refine your approach if its not quite ready for prime time. what you can do right nowa b testing is a valuable tool for getting the most out of your strategy whether on a small scale optimizing an email campaign or on a large one a widespread sales promotion. ready to give it a shot heres how to get going. start small. for your first a b test choose something lowcost and lowrisk a minimal change to your email blasts social media postings or website. starting with one small change has the added benefit of showing definitive causeandeffect results. be very clear about the goal of your testing and about how you will measure results. set a defined test period or number of subjects. keep the scale appropriate to your experience with a b testing your resources and the type of initiative youre testing bigger changes often take longer to show results. searching for product market fit by chris massey on june rodrigo madanes has got years of experience designing and developing successful web and mobile products at companies such as skype and ebay. rodrigo will talk about exploring product market fit sharing his lessons learned about first focusing on the needs of a specific user segment. rodrigo dives into what it means to find product market fit some techniques for finding it and how long it can take. by way of example at skype in their earlyadopter phase they still had million registered users. the wave can take years and its not about size of user base. how do you recognise product market fit if youre sensible after launching your product youll spend some time searching for product market fit before you try and aggressively take what you believe your market to be. but working out when you have product market fit is a tricky thing. having a growing user base doesnt necessarily mean that youre solving a real problem for a defined market or that youve built something that people actually want it might just mean that you have great marketing. size of userbase isnt actually that helpful so you need to try and look for other behaviours and more importantly more specific segments of your audience. do you get a lot of return visitors do you have good net promoter scores are your users giving you money do you have stable cohort retention curves these are the signs that indicate a potential product market fit once youve found that fit then you should go out and find all the people who make up that audience and finally take the market. as observed by marc andreessen a startup really has two very different phases of existence before fit and after fit and thus two different sets of goals and behaviours. dont get those two mixed up. what next taking this a step further you need to find the specific set of features that matters to a specific defined market then work out exactly how to reach that market i. e. which channels to use and invest just in those however youll likely find as most startups do that although youll get a rampup in users when you hit product market fit your growth will gradually plateau. its important to remember that growth is bumpy and as your first product market fit growth spurt starts to slow you should already be looking into the next set of features that will trigger another round of fitbased growth. next its important to focus on the intensity of nps or some other measure of user love for your product. put simply if you try and build something for everyone youll build something thats great for nobody. focus on the users who really love your product and build for them as theyre more likely to be a defined market and theyre more likely to help you grow. and finally on the topic of defined markets focus on specific segments of your potential audience. realistically your audience is a complex and multifaceted mess of different types of people so you need to investigate using things like cohort analysis and segmentation to work out exactly what defines your market e. g. what mobile platform theyre using location wealth life stages and then work out how to reach them. how does whatsapp make money whatsapps revenue model last updated on october rd whatsapp was developed by jan koum and brian acton in early months of as a status update application hence the name whatsapp. it was further updated to whatsapp. which transformed it into an instant messaging application and started the real story. this facebookowned im application now provides service to more than billion users all over the world. but the question of how does whatsapp make money has been in the minds of everyone ever since the beginning as whatsapp proudly expresses its views against native advertisements and hasnt been charging its users for a long time. there surely are some big plans in the minds of developers and facebook regarding its revenue model. table of contents how does whatsapp make money. initial revenue generation strategy whatsapps revenue model facebooks strategy. whatsapp business. . whatsapp for business api. payments. future revenue earning strategies how does whatsapp make money whatsapp doesnt earn revenue through advertisements. the founders hated advertisements and created this adfree platform focusing just on great user experience and interface. they wanted to create an instant messaging platform for the users and not for the big companies to place ads. but at the same time they had to pay their bills too. so they decided to come up with the paid version of the application where they charged an annual fee of from the users. initial revenue generation strategy whatsapp got its first round of funding of k by five exyahoo friends who were granted a cofounder status. the second and third round of funding was carried by sequoia capital which invested a total amount of million million in and million in in whatsapp inc. this was the only source of income for the staff members of whatsapp. there wasnt much expenditure involved in running the application the primary cost included sending a verification code to the users. this is why whatsapp waved off the subscription fees. the strategy of the founders was to position the brand as a synonym for an instant messaging application. this required them to capitalize on the network effect. also read dropshipping business model how to start a dropshipping business this strategy of creating a network first and money after proved to be fruitful. after two long years of being wooed by facebooks ceo mark zuckerberg whatsapp was acquired by facebook on february for billion and all the employees were put to facebook payrolls including koum who is now a part of facebooks board. whatsapps revenue model facebooks strategy facebook acquired whatsapp in for billion and this opened many new doors for the application. even the answer to how does whatsapp make money changed after the acquisition facebook not only uses whatsapp as a user data generation factory but also has introduced some really strategic plans for whatsapps revenue model. whatsapp business facebook had new plans for whatsapp. the company launched whatsapp business application which lets users build their business profile and become a verified business on whatsapp. the verified businesses can create their business profile along with certain important links to their website or facebook page set up autoresponders can even link their landline numbers with whatsapp and can even integrate the whatsapp for business api with their product offering. the whatsapp business application is currently free to download and use for all businesses. whatsapp however makes money through whatsapp for business api. whatsapp for business api the company extended its business functionality by launching its first revenueearning product whatsapp business api. now if you dont know what an api is and how it works id suggest you read our article on api economy first. whatsapp api lets the businesses integrate whatsapp for business with their systems to reach out to customers through notifications and deal with their queries automatically. to prevent ad spam the company restricted the ability to send messages. businesses can only send messages to people who have contacted them first but the api will also help them programmatically send shipping confirmations appointment reminders or event tickets to their customers. the company is already working successfully with clients like booking. com wish etc. now how does whatsapp makes money through api also read how does paypal make money paypal revenue model well whatsapp has developed a really strategic revenue generation plan for this product. it charges businesses for slow replies. this means that the businesses will be able to respond to messages from users for free for up to hours but will have to pay a fee for every message sent after hours. the charge is fixed but is different for different countries. the businesses can also choose to reply manually through their own tool or apps like zendesk messagebird or twilio. now most of you must be thinking that the businesses can always use their whatsapp for business application to reply late to the customer inquiries. no matter how simple this solution sounds this technique doesnt suite businesses dealing with millions of users airline tickets travel tickets movie tickets banks etc. . moreover you cannot use api on any number already associated with whatsapp. you need a fresh number to install the api. payments whatsapp has introduced a payments option p p payments within the application for indian users which will further boost its position in the market and will make it a preferred application for sending money just like venmo in the usa. this will further benefit whatsapp business in the companys biggest market. during the recent f conference mark zuckerberg also disclosed his future plans to release the whatsapp payments feature to the rest of the world pretty soon. this will open gates to many more businesses relying on the platform the company capitalising on the network effect. future revenue earning strategies it looks like copying snapchats features wasnt just to steal its consumer base whatsapp is now planning to copy its revenueearning strategies as well. according to the economic times the company has plans to let businesses use the status feature where text photos videos and animated gifs can be shared for hours to advertise and promote their business. go on tell us what you think did we miss something come on tell us what you think of this article on how does whatsapp make money in the comments section. how useful was this post click on a star to rate it submit rating average rating. vote count how does whatsapp make money whatsapps revenue model. as you found this post useful. . . follow us on social media we are sorry that this post was not useful for you let us improve this post tell us how we can improve this post submit feedback thanks for your feedback about aashish recent posts aashish pahwa a marketer a dreamer a traveller and a philomath. i prefer stargazing to spending nights in clubs. brand management definition functions process the big causes of debt its impact on your business the history of whatsapp value proposition canvas how to fill it with template whatsapp marketing an actionable guide work flexibility what is it why is it important you may also like. . . how to become an entrepreneur how gofundme works makes money gofundme business model what is gig economy your guide to gig market rajesh negi says august at pm all bull shit revenue can be generated by charging from mobile manufactures and isp reply aashish pahwa says august at am its true that the revenue can be generated but it isnt at the moment. reply luna williams says december at pm you are right aashish we can see sponsor page and post on instagram and facebook but in whatsapp we wont see anything like this. thats why reason why this question comes in our mind how did they make money reply rahul says april at pm i think that whatsapp doesnt only pay for verification code but also it has to spend a amount of money on the storage too as it has to keep its users msgs until they are read by someone reply teja says april at pm i think whatsapp since it is owned by facebook uses user data and makes good use of it. reply mohamed ibrahim says april at pm youre right teja they sell users data to big companies for ex if me and my friend talk about nike shoes in watsapp about their new shoes in the market the positives and negatives of that shoes we talk is collected by watsapp and its sold to the nike company reply msg says june at pm there is nothing for free in this material world except unwanted advice. we are bargain enthusiast and freebee specialists. result juggad culture get buzzed when they get something for nothing. reply jaswanth reddy says august at am good reply next story what is a brand what are brand elements previous story facebook marketing facebook posts and advertisements for more engagement more on feedough how to develop a perfect prototype the startup process how gofundme works makes money gofundme business model why do you need a prototype the startup process the psychology of ownership in marketing follow us fans followers followers subscribers followers followers wework business model how does wework work wework business model how does wework work september by bharath sivakumar how does slack work make money slack business model how does slack work make money slack business model august by anannya saraswat how does udemy work udemy business model explained how does udemy work udemy business model explained july by kanika kataria how does kickstarter work make money how does kickstarter work make money june by bharath sivakumar why is ikea so cheap ikea business model why is ikea so cheap ikea business model june by anuj nawal how gofundme works makes money gofundme business model how gofundme works makes money gofundme business model april by kanika kataria how does sweatcoin work make money how does sweatcoin work make money april by bharath sivakumar how does uber eats make money uber eats business model how does uber eats make money uber eats business model april by kanika kataria how does patreon work make money patreon business model how does patreon work make money patreon business model april by bharath sivakumar how does google make money google business model how does google make money google business model april by anuj nawal how does google make money from android how does google make money from android march by anuj nawal about feedough is the onestop resource for everything related to startups. our philosophy is to research curate and provide the best startup feeds and resources to help you succeed in your venture. we are currently ranked as the th best startup website in the world and are paving our way to the top. so far we have served over m satisfied users and counting. what are you waiting for start your search now on this startup guide. navigate submit your startup startup reviews the comprehensive guide to generation z what is a business model types of business models a beginners guide to product management disclaimer we spend a lot of time researching and writing our articles and strive to provide accurate uptodate content. however our research is meant to aid your own and we are not acting as licensed professionals. we recommend that you use your own judgement and consult with your own consultant lawyer accountant or other licensed professional for relevant business decisions. a pms guide to empowering design and engineering you will hammer those nails into these widgets bob and you will learn to enjoy it the before several years ago at one of the previous places where i worked we had major issues with product designer turnover and engineer engagement. even though the company paid generously and had a good reputation our software engineers would sit in sprint planning meetings saying little and bolting out the door as soon as the meeting ended. new designers lost interest within a matter of months and were usually gone before the year was up. one of the main causes for this teamwide dissatisfaction was our product development process which at the time looked like this the executive team made new feature requests pms helped prioritize these ideas and fleshed these out into requirements. we then sent requirements to the designers who then cranked out designs. execapproved designs then went to the engineering team who built the feature according to spec and tested it. once everything was working correctly we launched it to users. rinse and repeat. this approach lets call it the product development assembly line created a few serious problems churn and delays during design and implementation because we didnt loop in engineering and design together from the beginning of the project we wandered far down paths that were too technically challenging to implement. for example designers would spend weeks building pixelperfect invision prototypes complete with animations and hover states only to discover that their solution required a refactoring of the entire underlying data model. when that happened we had to go back to the drawing board in order to come up with a more feasible solution wasting precious time and slowing down the overall project. total lack of investment in the features we worked on with the assembly line approach team members had no impact on the preceding step in the process. designers had limited input on the requirements and engineers had little say on either the requirements or the designs. almost nobody including pms bothered to contribute new feature ideas because we had little faith theyd make it into the roadmap. we treated our team members like pixel pushers and code monkeys and unsurprisingly they ended up not caring about the product. uninformed feature suggestions without contributions from designers and engineers to the product roadmap we often ended up working on the wrong set of features. at the time our feature suggestions came largely from our executive team as opposed to the people who spent the most time with our product and our users. ensuing problems included delaying critical tech debt issues until our backend was on the verge of falling over and failing to take user testing feedback into account when prioritizing features. stunted professional development and personal growth for many engineers and designers progressing along their respective career tracks means participating more deeply in the product development process. for a senior engineer this may include advocating for techdriven initiatives like speeding up performance while senior designers might want to emphasize recurring themes from user interviews. from this perspective the product assembly line does all team members a disservice when everyone is just supposed to keep their heads down and stay in their lane no one gets the experience they need to advance in their careers. us years ago the after luckily we eventually came to the realization that our product development approach was broken and we overhauled it completely. instead of ideas moving linearly from one functional role to the next we adopted a much more collaborative approach. lets call this process the product development loop. crossfunctional squads the foundation of the product development loop is the the crossfunctional squad which consists of a product manager engineers designers and even business stakeholders depending on the circumstances. squads have an overarching goal that may vary from quarter to quarter an example goal may be to increase monthly active users by. all squad members play an active role in coming up with ideas for how to hit those goals prioritizing what to work on first and executing on highimpact ideas. best practices on this topic will be the subject of an entire standalone post soon to come. feature development loops the process diagram for the product development loop looks way more complicated than the assembly line but its actually fairly simple. basically it just involves circling back with the crossfunctional squad and checking after every major step in the process. in practice the steps break down as follows project kickoffs begin each project with a group discussion around the user problems youre trying to solve and aligning on a highlevel approach. product briefs prds pms then flesh out more detailed user stories and requirements based off the approach and then check in again with the squad. wireframes user testing technical designs from there design and engineering work in parallel designers build lowfidelity wireframes and conduct usability tests if applicable while engineers write a technical design document and solicit feedback from peers. alignment crossfunctional squad reviews wireframes asks questions and confirms that they satisfy the requirements without presenting a major technical challenge. highfidelity designs implementation designers turn the wireframes into highfidelity designs and present them in a developerfriendly format think invision inspect or zeplin while engineers break down the technical design into discrete tasks and start working on the backend and preliminary frontend. once high fidelity designs are complete engineers can finish with styling and polish collaborating closely with design to reduce iteration and churn. prelaunch checks business stakeholders receive an endtoend walkthrough of the feature especially if their team has to use it postlaunch think a cms or other internal tool. the crossfunctional squad thoroughly dogfoods the feature and everyone signs off on launch. postlaunch analysis pms work with data teams to make sure that reporting is in place and conducts analysis both qualitative and quantitative x days postlaunch to measure impact. debrief reflect pm shares findings on impact with the rest of the squad and the team reflects on what areas of the feature are working well and what areas can be improved. while this approach may not work for every team some product teams may not have any designers for instance the general process and philosophy hold true for most organizations. at its core the product development loop seeks to give everyone on the team a seat at the table and a chance to make their voice heard. epilogue a few months after we introduced the new process employee turnover decreased and we noticed ourselves wasting less time on preventable churn in our work. in addition we received a lot of great feedback from the team that they felt more ownership over the product as a whole. us now not an exaggeration however the product development loop is not a perfect solution. there will always be times where an assumption turned out to be incorrect after we started working on a feature that required us to go back and change things. but as a whole teams are a lot more forgiving of mistakes when they feel like theyre appreciated and doing meaningful work. and ultimately as a pm youre only as effective as your team so the more you can empower them and make them feel invested in the outcome the more successful you will be. product management startup software development agile leadershiphow smart leaders use storytellinga consultant friend told me a story about the power of storytelling during the financial crisis. he was working for one of the big financial services firms and as the economy worsened so did the stock price. as anxiety rose in the office there were two reactions he noticed one manager lock himself in his office and refuse to take calls. he could be seen through the glass slumped at his desk head in his hands a dark desperate look on his face. another manager on the other hand walked the floor. she told reassuring stories about how shed been through these things before it was part of the business cycle and that they would all get through it. during lunch she pulled everyone together and said weve had a great year and worked really hard. i dont know about you but ive really enjoyed it up until now. she used humour to help get her point across. she continued as a team we now have two choices. we can let this get us down and give up. or we could fight back. let me tell you the story of my brave son ben she then shared a powerful personal experience. her son ben had been diagnosed with a rare form of childhood cancer. though he faced a challenging diagnosis it hadnt gotten him down. my son is a fighter. just like us. everyone left the office that day a bit more reassured if this kid could make it so could they. we all love stories. they are a huge part of what makes us human. think about the prehistoric cave drawings of lascaux for example. anthropologists theorize that these paintings of large animals are a depiction of successful hunts. in other words theyre stories. stories harness the same power you use when watching a great movie writing a facebook post about your holiday or telling your child a story before going to sleep. they enable us to link our experience with meaning for our own self and a sense of shared meaning with others. we all need to find out what comes next. the neuroscience researchrecent neuroscience research tells us more about how storytelling works. when you tell a story a chemical called oxytocin is produced by the brain. it generates trust in the listener. the same principle works when you show someone an unexpected kindness. the chemical motivates cooperation with others and does this by enhancing the sense of empathy our ability to experience others emotions. this is important for social creatures because it allows us to understand how others are likely to react to a situation including those with whom we work. story constructioninstinctively from a young age we know how stories are constructed theres a beginning a middle and an end. the american writer kurt vonnegut discussing one of the oldest stories in the book boy gets girl put it this way notice how the story starts on a bit of a high boy meets girl and falls in love usually love at first sight but then the girl meets another guy and the boy wonders if hell be able to compete and keep her. but he does in the end of course but still we wonder how its going to happen and that wonder is tension. how are the obstacles going to be overcome if the story you tell is able to create that tension then it is likely that attentive viewers listeners will come to share your emotions and continue mimicking your feelings and behaviours. this explains the feeling of dominance you have after james bond saves the world and your motivation to work out after watching the spartans fight in the film. when to use leadership storiesyou dont have to wait for a big event to use a story. less dramatic opportunities appear all the time in the workplace. as jim laughlin points out on his story blog here are three common opportunities to share your leadership story with others. when taking on a new positiona new manager has a great opportunity to use a story to make a great first impression. often the early period is filled with oneonone meetings as well as multiple team meetings as the new manager does factfinding and rapportbuilding while learning their new area of responsibility and establishing priorities. look to include stories into these meetings. help people understand who you are and what motivates you by telling a brief story about yourself or by sharing one of your formative experiences. . when orienting a new reportthere is much to talk about with a new employee as we seek to clarify their goals and responsibilities as well as help them understand the resources tools and processes they need to rely on to accomplish their work. but dont miss the opportunity to create a personal connection by sharing your story. the number one predictor of job satisfaction for an employee is their relationship with their immediate supervisor. why not start out on a good productive personal note that creates rapport and clarifies whats most important to you and encourage their stories too. find out about the unique person who has joined your team and what shaping experiences they have had. they will value your personal interest in them and be more engaged in their work as a result. . when launching a projectbig projects and difficult undertakings often begin with great anxiety. can we pull it off will we be successful how are we going to accomplish this new thing smart leaders use stories to remind their group that teams can accomplish great things together that they have been part of successes in the past under challenging circumstances and that they cant wait to experience success again with this team. building the storybut how do you do this in practicality particularly if you are on the quieter side. lets say that you the team leader need to get your team to willingly work over the weekend to get out an important client project. you can use the following four steps to build your leadership story storytelling is ultimately about delivering important business messages. decide what is the message you need to get across and the feeling you want the receivers of the communication to have. get it clearly succinctly in your head. how can your points be supported by stories or a narrative for instance you could get buyin for a new initiative by talking about individual clients you know and how this new initiative will positively affect them. rehearse delivering the story. if you dont feel comfortable with storytelling rehearse it. dont worry about being perfect the first time. thats why its called rehearsal. each time you repeat it it will be smoother and help build your confidence. memorise the opening. this will help you begin with confidence that will grow as you continue. as andy raskin a leadership guru says storytelling isnt a fashion accessory that leaders can decide to wear or not. very literally leadership is storytelling and leaders are storytellers. now try it out whether its at your weekly team meeting a town hall or a crucial stories can help you deliver key messages and demonstrate your leadership chops. definitioncustomer development is a fourstep framework originally identified by steve blank to discover and validate that you have identified a need s that customers have built the right product to satisfy that customers need s tested the correct methods for acquiring and converting customers and deployed the right resources in the organization to meet the demand for the product. the framework provides a way to use a scientific approach to validate assumptions about your product and business. the four steps of the framework are customer discovery understand customers and their needs that you may be able to satisfy. customer validation you have a product that will satisfy your customers needs. company creation you determine whether your product will satisfy all the customers needscompany building you can grow your organization in order to support the demand for your product. the lean startup approach combines customer development which is helpful when you dont know the problem and agile development which is helpful when you dont know the solution. both approaches provide ways to iteratively validate assumptions and learn through feedback. the first step of customer development customer discovery is the part of the framework that plays the biggest part in lean startup and has also been shortened to discovery by some in the agile community. customer discovery helps you determine whether you understand the need you are trying to satisfy and whether you are satisfying the right need. customer discovery can be described as. identify the need. you may not always immediately know the actual need you are trying to satisfy. in some cases you start with a solution product idea at which point you need to work backward to figure out the need you are really trying to satisfy. . hypothesize potential solutions. once you have an understanding of the true need hypothesize a potential solution. if you were initially handed a solution to deliver you can include that as a candidate but you may find that the need youre satisfying requires a completely different solution. . identify assumptions. identify assumptions that are central to your hypothesized solution including assumptions aboutbusiness environmentdependenciesminimum requirements for a solutionchange management requireda helpful way to identify assumptions is to ask what must be true for this solution to be effective. validate assumptions. talk to customers and gather data to validate your assumptions and test your solution. there are many different ways you can go about validating assumptions. . start delivering. once you feel you have validated a sufficient number of assumptions start delivering a minimal yet viable solution and get frequent feedback from your customers on whether the solution meets their needs. . constantly reevaluate your solution. constantly reevaluate your solution to make sure it is still worthwhile based on new information that comes to light. regularly ask whether you should commit to transform or kill the solution. also known aswhile not completely interchangeable as terms close analogs to customer development at least with respect to intended outcome are the ideas of discovery and lean ux. expected benefitsthe primary benefits to customer development is that it provides a team with an approach to take to validate assumptions and it provides a way to go about determining whether the team is delivering the right thing. common pitfallsthe most common pitfall related with customer development is that teams do not use it. instead they fall in love with their product the solution without understanding which if any needs it satisfies. the result is a product without a market or with a smaller market than anticipated and potential business issues. when applicablecustomer development was initially described in the context of technology startups however the idea of building a shared understanding about customers and their needs prior to creating a product is applicable to all businesses and can even be applied to more established organizations that seek to introduce new products. the approach to validating assumptions described as customer development can also be used in internal product situations however the team in those cases knows there is a problem to solve they just may not have clearly stated it or fully assessed whether the problem is worth solving. in new product development settings customer development is especially helpful to determine if there is a problem that needs to be solved and whether there is a product idea that can solve that problem in a valuable manner. origins steve blank introduces the concept of customer development in his book the four steps to the epiphany. this book is based on actions he saw several start ups take to launch products. customer development sees a much broader audience when eric ries describes it as a key piece of lean startup in conjunction with agile software development in his book the lean startuphas this happened to you you needed to consult with a friend about an important matter but when you finally met you realized that he was hardly interested in your problem. even worse he halfheartedly gave you vague and remotely related advice. could it get more frustrating similarly a ceo may feel that the board of directors does not help the company. she may be right board meetings could be a waste of time board members may be unproductive or burdensome in the worst cases lack of board cooperation may prevent a successful exit. kevin rose got an offer to sell digg for million a few years ago but his board rejected it. digg was sold for mere back in july. board ineffectiveness often stems from board nomination mistakes. here are five big mistakes that are often made when choosing board members and maybe more importantly tips on avoiding them. . wrong people on the boardboard members can be great resources who provide support knowledge and access to unique professional networks. unfortunately not all board members offer such value. for example some board members prioritize the interests of the investors or founders whom they represent far above those of the startup. scott kurnik an experienced entrepreneur and investor advises not to nominate to the board anyone reporting to the ceo. interestingly enough he also suggests putting the founders best friend on the board. additionally one should be careful of five types of dysfunctional board members as defined by jack and suzy welch the donothing the white flag will do anything to avoid confrontation the cabalist driven by personal agenda the meddler dwells incessantly on details and the pontificator only enjoys hearing himself speak. how to avoid this mistake carefully consider board nominees and ask for feedback from people who have worked with them. appoint at least one independent director loyal to the company only. . misalignment regarding the boards roleboards of directors have many fiduciary and legal responsibilities. still boards often have additional roles correlated with the ventures stage. at earlystage startups members should support the management without micromanaging it. for example they may help guide product decisions or provide access to recruits customers and investors. ideally board members could also mentor founders. more established startups however may need a different type of assistance related to scaling sales engineering logistics and other functions that no longer fit into a garage. the above roles differ from those at publicly traded companies where board members extensively monitor the firms performance and confirm that the management does not put its interests before the companys the agent problem. matt blumberg the ceo of return path provides a useful summary of what makes awesome board members. how to avoid this mistake check whether the candidate has board experience with firms of similar stages and needs. discuss with the candidate expectations of the boards role and responsibilities. . a homogeneous boardit is important not to form a board of too similar profiles e. g. all are engineers or all have similar vc backgrounds and to diversify your startup to confirm that the various required skills are in place. david roth the cofounder of appfirst described recently how the need to balance the board guided his startups decisions. aileen lee of kleiner perkins caufield byers has an interesting argument that the next board member should be a woman especially if women compose a significant portion of the ventures users. how to avoid this mistake list the skills and experience needed from the board product design customer acquisition partnerships user experience a great rolodex. consider rejecting solid candidates whose skills and experience are common within the board in favor of candidates who possess the missing skills and attributes. . too many board membersan entrepreneur once complained my board keeps on growing. vcbacked startups often encounter this problem when a new round of financing entitles investors to board seats. sometimes observer rights increase the number of attendants even more. at some point a boards growth has diminishing returns. for a startup a tenperson board will rarely be as engaged and helpful as a smaller one will. further the logistics assembling everyone arranging oneonone time with the ceo before board meetings etc. become exponentially more complex. fred wilson from union square ventures thinks a board of five members is ideal. he recommends no more than board members two founders one to three vcs and one to two other industry professionals. how to avoid this mistake negotiate the number of future board seats entitled with investors in the shareholders agreement. prefer nominees who will agree to leave the board when it grows or when their skill sets become less relevant. consider building a board of advisors to access additional experience without increasing the size of the board of directors. . poor organizational fitsome board relationship problems can harm the company severely. for example board members who get involved in daytoday decisions instead of supporting the management or replacing the ceo when necessary can inhibit the ceos ability to lead. another problem occurs when board members accustomed to aggressive corporate cultures meet a ceo for whom aggressive equals rude. furthermore pushy board members can cause ceos to commit to unrealistic plans. its true that ceos are responsible for their own decisions but they can still be unduly pressured especially when the board member is an investor whom an inexperienced ceo may feel obligated to please. last some board members may be professionally adept but they do not show interest in mentoring the management nor can they successfully interact with other members bond or build team spirit. steve blank provides a painful example of poor relationships between one of his exstudents and the chair of his startup. how to avoid this mistake check each candidates track record tenure reasons for leaving relationships developed as board member at other firms. replace board members who negatively impact the boards internal relationships. this is not easy but in extreme cases it is necessary. what is a distribution channel distribution channel refers to the network used to get a product from the manufacturer or creator to the end user. when a distribution channel is direct the manufacturer is selling directly to the end user without a middleman. when the distribution channel is indirect the product changes hands several times before reaching the ultimate consumer. intermediaries between the manufacturer and the consumer in an indirect distribution channel might include wholesaler distributordealerretailerconsultantmanufacturers representativecatalogthere might be just one intermediary there might be many. direct vs. indirect distribution channelsa company that sells directly to consumers through direct mail a catalog of its own products or its own ecommerce site represents a business that uses a direct distribution channel. for example entrepreneurs who create and sell digital products that include workbooks audio training and online courses from their own websites are using a direct distribution channel. the digital products go directly from the creator to the customer. on a larger scale the beverage alcohol industry uses a multitier indirect distribution channel. distillers and wineries sell to distributors who sell to retailers who sell to consumers. but while wineries must use indirect distribution channels to get their wines into retail outlets where consumers can buy them many also sell directly to consumers onsite at wineries. using both approaches lets wineries reach a mass market through an indirect distribution channel and a smaller market through direct distribution via onsite retail operations that they own. distribution channel considerationsbusinesses with products should ask a number of questions before determining a distribution program. those questions include how does the enduser like to purchase these types of products does the consumer want to touch and examine the product or is it a product that the target audience likes to buy online what if any are the local regional or national regulations regarding the product categorys distribution channels does the customer need personalized service does the product itself need to be serviced does the product need to be installed how is the product typically distributed and sold in your industry the distribution channel will have an impact on pricing. with indirect distribution a product that goes from the manufacturer to a distributor before it goes to a retail outlet needs to be priced at wholesale so that both the distributor and retailer can mark up the price. with a multitier distribution channel it looks like this the manufacturers customer is the distributor. the distributors customer is the retailer. the retailers customer is the consumer. the manufacturer distributor and retailer all need to make money on that product. the directtoconsumer price is often the same as the price of a product that has been marked up several times through indirect distribution. not offering a direct to you discount protects retailer relationships and offers the manufacturer or creator a higher profit on the product. design systems sprint the silver bullet of product development. design systems sprint the silver bullet of product development. marcin treder follow apr min read a brief introduction im marcin a former ux manager and now cofounder and ceo at uxpin the full stack ux design platform. in this series of posts im reporting on uxpins journey of creating our own design system. were starting by discussing the fundamentals of design systems why what and then were moving sprint by sprint through the entire process of building and maintaining a complete system. if youre wondering why or how to build a design system this series is for you. like with every project at uxpin our design system journey started with a series of user interviews. between july and august i interviewed enterprise designers developers and product leaders about their most pressing challenges. i wanted a clearer picture of where design and development was heading. nothing paints a clearer vision of tomorrow than the pains of today. while these generative interviews are meant to inform our product roadmap they also improve our own product development process. thats an added benefit when youre working on a platform for design and development teams. we can learn a ton from our own customers. this time the end result led us to an unexpected revelation. every interview revealed a problem wed faced ourselves as we grew over the years. a problem so big and powerful that it can cripple product development at feisty startups weigh down user experience at midsize companies and completely prevent the scaling of design and development in enterprises. that problem is the lack of design consistency. the menace of every great product. lack of design consistency the biggest issue in product design design consistency was clearly a prevalent issue. and our interviewees were very vocal about what that meant for their teams and users user confusion. different patterns responsible for the same action confuse users slow design process. lack of reusable design assets slows down designers everything is created from scratch slow development. low number of fully reusable components bogs down development. difficult onboarding. introducing new designers and developers to an undocumented system is impossibly difficult. we wanted to learn more. we also wanted to validate the findings. so a couple of weeks after our interviews we ran a largescale survey on the state of enterprise design. of the respondents pointed at improving ux consistency as the challenge they currently face in the ux process results of uxpin state of the enterprise ux survey the verdict was unmistakeable the lack of consistency is constantly on designers minds and rightfully so. good design by its nature is systematic yet growth of the team and of processes unless meticulously managed inevitably seem to lead to inconsistencies. karri saarinen lead designer on airbnbs design system probably put it best software is often built by incredibly large teams of people. the challenge to create coherent experiences multiplies exponentially as more people are added to the mix. over time no matter how consistent or small a team is different people will contribute new solutions and styles causing experiences to diverge. the more inconsistent the user experience the slower product development becomes and vice versa. in my past experience as a ux manager in the enterprise teams unable to identify design standards eventually default to building everything from scratch. and so the situation worsens. its a vicious cycle. of course users suffer the most. a google research study from showed that users prefer simple interfaces which seem familiar. they seek out experiences consistent with other experiences on the platform. we crave familiarity. every new pattern responsible for the same action or visual inconsistency creates an unnecessary pause and an eventual burden. consistency introduces feelings of safety and familiarity. inconsistency creates chaos and confusion. governing the chaos so how are these teams working to minimize inconsistencies participants of our study were very consistent in their answers building and maintaining a design system. the enterprise segment b b products of the design market seems to already be there results of uxpin state of the enterprise ux survey of enterprises either have a design system or are currently working on one. companies such as saleforce ibm airbnb and atlassian lead the crowd with very mature implementations of living design systems. it certainly makes sense. at that size and scale the problem of inconsistency is too painful and expensive to ignore. deconstructing design systems so far in this short post ive mentioned the term design system over times. so what exactly is a design system after all its not a selfexplanatory term. and its easily confused with style guides or ui pattern libraries. lets build our definition off why companies decide to build a design system in the first place. design systems increase design consistency and code consistency every reusable design pattern should have a corresponding reusable piece of code. with a design system pieces of the system are reusable across multiple parts of a product and even across multiple products. by approaching product development with a legolike process we get more time back in our day to focus on bigger product problems. we minimize the redundant conversations and the oneoff solutions. so if this is why companies build systems than the following can serve as our working definition a design system is the architectural core of a product s for ensuring design and code consistency and product development efficiency. its a little bit easier to understand if youd take a look at the typical structure of a design system. what is a typical structure to find out we analyzed publicly available design systems. result of uxpin research design systems are quite consistent in structure. we definitely see a lot of similarities across different systems. typically we have a library of interface patterns with corresponding code references a definition of high level styling or structural elements grid colors typography and a set of design principles. if youd like to further structurize it heres something i found really useful in explaining design systems to others the design system is truly a gold standard from the general building blocks of every piece of design through the ui patterns and building up the highlevel rules defining the future of the product. a design system isnt set in stone however. it should evolve with the product and always reflect the truth. building and maintaining a design system is definitely a big challenge but one worth facing. after all it can break us out of the vicious cycle of unscalable design. to me it sounded like a dream one that we really needed to realize at uxpin. design consistency at uxpin why we really needed a design system our own research hit us right in the face. weve tried to fight inconsistency in our interface with a set of design principles and rudimentary libraries but wed never moved into a full design system. while i wouldnt call our experience fractured or completely inconsistent we definitely had quirks which needed standardizing. take these primary buttons theyre visually different yet hierarchically identical. both buttons are responsible for the most important action in a given context. it might seem like a small thing but great experiences are built out of small things. after doing some spotchecks of our own product and marking up the inconsistencies we decided to do a complete audit as part of building out our design system. we needed to build a scaffolding for future product and team growth. interestingly enough a certain modular environment already existed in uxpin. our development team moved to react. js over a year ago and the web development team started to build and maintain their less files in a highly structured and modular way. uxpin stylesheets repository shows a good level of modularity meanwhile design needed to play some catch up. together with development wed need to expand this approach for both disciplines to scale in harmony. the journey ahead by the time youre reading these words our design operations team led by yours truly is already multiple sprints ahead. it gives me time to reflect on what weve accomplished so i can share all the hard lessons with you. parts of the system already exist parts are gradually being worked on. heres our current roadmap in the next post ill share how we created an inventory of uxpin design and how that helped create our design system. stay tuned are you looking for all the articles in this series here they are design systems sprint the silver bullet of product development. design systems sprint the interface inventory design system sprint one color palette to rule them all design system sprint managing the basics design system sprint design principles design system sprint managing typography design system sprint the fastest icons on earth and youre into more indepth thoughts on design systems the minimum viable design system design systems are a language. company culture is more important than ever. its not that company culture was ever unimportant but its quickly proving to be a musthave rather than a nicetohave. for the first time in history millennials have become the largest generational cohort in the u. s. workforce with almost million making up the labor force. millennials arent from outer space but they did grow up in a different setting from previous generations which contributes to the shifting priorities that were seeing in the workforce today. consider my grandfather who presented me a gold watch that signified his years of service at the same company. his generation and my parents generation had to navigate the labor force in the wake of the great depression and world war ii. therefore i along with the majority of my peers was told that job security was the most important element when considering a career. related entrepreneur and cultureiq are searching for the top company cultures millennials by contrast grew up in a time of financial prosperity and rapid technological advancements. a career means much more than a stable place to work for years and employees are looking at company values meaning community and culture. this leads us to todays workplace landscape in which hr leaders consider culture and engagement their numberone challenge according to a recent study by deloitte university press. its clear that in order to attract retain and engage the modern workforce we need to focus on company culture. its a tall order and we should start by looking at what employees millennials and nonmillennials alike value in their job. here are three priorities of todays workforce to consider when developing your company culture flexibility on the job according to a study by pwc employees of all generations are prioritizing flexibility in their jobs whether that be in the form of scheduling location or even office setup. in fact for many employees flexibility in a job is more important than compensation and promotion. as a father of two i work from home from time to time so that i can attend school plays and soccer games. providing this flexibility in my company allows me to be there for my family while running a growing business. my employees know they can do the same to achieve that balance in their life. luckily we live in an age of technology innovations and there are plenty of solutions that help employees collaborate learn and be productive regardless of their hours or location. related the company culture metrics you should be tracking right now professional development like flexibility professional development is even more important to millennials than financial rewards when selecting an employer. this means that you should think about the potential for advancement within your company and also how you are presenting job opportunities to prospective employees. there are many interesting professional development initiatives you can explore to make sure employees are learning and developing on the job like connecting employees to moocs massive open online courses building out a mentorship program or promoting passion projects. be good do good prospective and current employees care about your reputation as a company. this reputation encompasses your employer brand and also your companys social responsibility efforts such as corporate giving volunteerism and sustainability. what your company does and says needs to align with what employees believe. a powerful example of making this part of your company culture is whole foods who incorporates social responsibility as a core value we serve and support our local and global communities. however it doesnt need to be that drastic and there are plenty of smaller things you can do as a company. for example at my company cultureiq we volunteered together as one of our monthly culture events. some companies even allocate a designated amount of time for offsite volunteer activities. while millennials have brought these topics to the forefront of our minds your company culture should be designed for and built by all employees. these priorities give you a place to start but the strongest company cultures develop from input and feedback from employees. related entrepreneurs need to focus on culture not perkswhat is jobstobedone what is jobstobedone theory what is a jobtobedone a desired outcome its all explained in this article. tony ulwick follow feb jobstobedone is best defined as a perspective a lens through which you can observe markets customers needs competitors and customer segments differently and by doing so make innovation far more predictable and profitable. when einstein engaged in his thought experiments he pictured himself riding on a beam of light and traveling through the universe. from this perspective he was able to view the universe through a new lens enabling him to see things in a different and meaningful way and to develop a theory that others could not. similarly when you look at marketing and innovation through a jobstobedone lens everything looks different the unit of analysis is no longer the customer or the product its the core functional job the customer is trying to get done. markets arent defined around products they are defined as groups of people trying to get a job done. customers arent buyers they are job executors. needs arent vague latent and unknowable they are the metrics customers use to measure success when getting a job done. competitors arent companies that make products like yours they are any solution being used to get the job done. customer segments arent based on demographics or psychographics they are based on how customers struggle differently to get a job done. when a company thinks about a market from this perspective it is much more likely to create and deliver extraordinary products and services. why while products come and go the customers jobtobedone is stable over time. with a focus on a stable unit of analysis it becomes possible to define customer needs that are stable over time as well giving companies unique robust targets for value creation. in short jobstobedone offers a new framework and lens through which a company can take its understanding of customer needs to the next level and bring predictability to innovation. the first documented success achieved by a company applying this thinking was detailed in the harvard business review article turn customer input into innovation. the article describes how in cordis corporation used this thinking to increase its angioplasty balloon market share from percent to over percent. jobstobedone is best defined as a perspective a lens through which customer needs can be effectively defined and communicated making marketing more effective and innovation far more predictable. when looking at marketing and innovation through a jobstobedone lens a theory begins to emerge. jobstobedone theory is comprised of a group of principles or tenets that form a foundation for making marketing more effective and innovation more predictable by focusing on the customers jobtobedone. the theory is based on the notion that people buy products and services to get a job done. jobs theory goes on to say that by understanding in detail what that job entails companies are far more likely to create and market solutions that will win in the marketplace. the core tenets of jobstobedone theory are summarized as follows people buy products and services to get a job done. jobs are functional with emotional and social components. a jobtobedone is stable over time. a jobtobedone is solution agnostic. success comes from making the job rather than the product or the customer the unit of analysis. a deep understanding of the customers job makes marketing more effective and innovation far more predictable. people want products and services that wil help them get a job done better and or more cheaply people seek out products and services that enable them to get the entire job done on a single platform customer needs when tied to the jobtobedone make innovation predictable to learn more about these tenets see the medium article the core tenets of jobstobedone theory. for a more comprehensive understanding of the theory and its evolution see what customers want the first book written on this subject. in order to study a jobtobedone the job must be correctly defined a jobtobedone is a statement that describes with precision what a group of people are trying to achieve or accomplish in a given situation. a jobtobedone could be a task that people are trying to accomplish a goal or objective they are trying to achieve a problem they are trying to resolve something they are trying to avoid or anything else they are trying to accomplish. a job statement is written as verb object of the verb contextual clarifier optionally. for example pass on life lessons to children repair a torn rotator cuff and prevent a shooter from entering a school are all jobstobedone. to gain a deep understanding of the customers jobtobedone a company must be able to discover the customers needs associated with getting that job done. when looking at a market through a jobstobedone lens customer needs can be discovered by studying the customers core functional job as a process. tactically the core functional job can be broken down into steps using what we call a job map as described in the harvard business review article the customercentered innovation map. with the job map in place companies can then seek to discover the metrics customers use to measure success as they try to get each step in the job done. these metrics are the perfect way to think about and define the customers needs. these need statements which we call desired outcomes bring predictability to innovation. a desired outcome statement is a specially constructed need statement that has a unique set of characteristics desired outcomes are devoid of solutions stable over time measureable controllable structured for reliable prioritization in a quantitative customer survey and are tied to the underlying process or job the customer is trying to get done see the medium article inventing the perfect customer need statement and the mit sloan article giving customers a fair hearing. since the customers jobtobedone is stable over time the customers needs when defined as desired outcome statements are also stable over time. see the medium article define customer needs as constants. with a stable set of needs in hand a company is able to quantify which needs are underserved and overserved. discover segments of customers with different unmet needs. use the metrics as a baseline against which they can test product ideas and concepts before they are developed. knowing which product or service concept will get the job done best early in the product planning stages prior to development is the key to predictable and profitable innovation. this case study shows how bosch applied jobs theory to product innovation. this case study shows how arm hammer applied jobs theory to marketing innovation. this case study shows how amo applied jobs theory to service innovation. jobstobedone theory is applicable along many fronts to explain how to put jobstobedone theory into practice lets start by asking who are the potential users of jobstobedone theory and what are the jobs they are trying to get done four jobs are of particular interest market selection deciding what markets to enter product planning deciding what products to create product development deciding how to best design a product and buying process deciding how to improve the customers buying process. . market selection deciding what markets to enter. first jobstobedone theory is being embraced by entrepreneurs in startups and managers in corporations and corporate venturing units who are trying to discover evaluate and select markets that are attractive for them to enter pursue. when looking through a jobstobedone lens a market is defined as a group of people job executors and the job they are trying to get done. as entrepreneurs and managers engage in the market discovery and selection process they start by trying to discover a number of unique jobs that job executors are struggling to get done. their goal is to discover and define the jobs at a level of abstraction that makes the job a uniquely attractive target. to learn how to define jobs at the right level of abstraction see jobs to be done theory to practice ulwick. once a number of markets are identified the next step in the market selection process is to determine which is the most attractive to pursue. a job for example that is executed by many people frequently and is highly underserved would be a more attractive target than one that is executed by fewer people infrequently and is already appropriately served. strategyns clients use a market evaluation tool that includes criteria to help make the market selection decision see figure. this worksheet can be downloaded from strategyns home page. figure jobstobedone market evaluation and selection template. product planning deciding what products to create. second jobstobedone theory has been embraced by product marketing and innovation managers in established companies who are trying to grow and expand their core markets. their goals are to typically i create a value proposition that resonates with customers ii improve existing products and iii conceptualize altogether new products that will address core or adjacent market opportunities. these activities executed by the product planner comprise the innovation process. to apply jobstobedone theory to assist in marketing and innovation strategyn developed outcomedriven innovation odi. the innovation process originated in and has been simplified and improved through hundreds of applications within fortune companies since. strategyn introduced odi to clayton christensen in. six successes arising from the process are described in detail in a book recently released jobs to be done theory to practice ulwick. the odi process is comprised of the following steps figure figure the outcomedriven innovation process while the first step overlaps a step in the market selection process market discovery and definition the remaining steps in the process are different and so are the tools required to execute them. to win at innovation a company must know what a customer need is what the customers needs are which are unmet and if segments of customers exist with unique sets of unmet needs. with the target well defined creating a winning solution becomes far more likely. odi reveals the required insights using unconventional qualitative and quantitative market research techniques. the process uniquely employs predictive data and a sophisticated market segmentation methodology that helps companies discover and prioritize hidden market opportunities. strategyn has developed a comprehensive set of tools to help its clients execute each step in the process. additional information on the odi innovation process can be found here. . product development deciding how to best design a product. the third application involves developers and ui and ux designers who are trying to develop products that have been approved for development their jobtobedone. these developers may work in lean or agile environments. their goal is to ensure that the products they create and the code they write not only delivers on the product specifications but also guarantees a positive user experience. those trying to apply jobstobedone theory to the product development process typically have the benefit of knowing what product they are trying to create the product is already conceptualized and defined as part of the innovation process. what developers and ui and ux designers struggle with are design issues and understanding the customers needs that relate to what we call consumption chain jobs such as learning how to use and interfacing with the product see figure. figure consumption chain jobs and outcomes as an extension of the odi process our clients apply steps and of the odi process outcome gathering and prioritization to better understand the outcomes of users as they learn how to use interface with the product and engage in the remaining consumption chain jobs that must be considered in the design phase. we have collected outcomes in all consumption chain jobs multiple times over the years. if a company uses odi for the innovation process developers will have the prioritized outcomes associated with the core functional job. these inputs are needed for development design as well. these insights can then be communicated to developers or ux and ui designers in the following job outcome story format figure the job outcome story for developers designers if a developer does not have access to the customer outcomes associated with the core functional jobtobedone then they tend to want to execute the innovation process in conjunction with the development process learning more about the required product function as they create the product. combining the development process with the innovation process creates confusion when using and implementing jobstobedone theory. a product concept should be well defined and proven to win in the marketplace before it is approved for development. the odi process makes this possible. . buying process deciding how to improve the customers buying process. the forth application of the theory involves marketing team members who are trying to understand the process that customers go through when buying a product so they can enhance the customers buying experience. confusion over jobstobedone theory results from thinking that understanding the customer purchase decision will somehow inform the innovation and development processes as well but it does not. the purchase process is an altogether unique job the customer is trying to get done and is best studied as a separate job. we have studied the purchase job on a number of occasions over the years most recently with harte hanks where we studied customers of retailers who were engaged in the purchase process. the results of that work can be seen in this article can bricks and mortar compete with online retailing. the article shows that the purchase process involves the customer working to understand the problem they are trying to solve and then researching and evaluating possible solutions selecting the best solution deciding where to buy it and finally engaging in the physical transaction required to acquire the product. gaining customer insights across this job at the desired outcome level can lead to improvements in the customers purchase experience. while each of these four jobs is clearly different they can all benefit from jobstobedone theory. its just a matter of picking the right tool for the job. you can obtain additional resources at strategyn. learn more download a free pdf version of my latest jobstobedone book jobs to be done theory to practice. download a free pdf jobstobedone outcomedriven innovation jobstobedone. com by tony ulwick is a place where people can come to i learn how to put jobstobedone theory jtbd into practice with proven frameworks and templates and ii read case studies and examples of success using the outcomedriven innovation process. follow jobs to be done innovation marketing startup framework claps written by tony ulwick follow founder of the innovation consulting firm strategyn pioneer of jobstobedone theory creator of outcomedriven innovation. most great products dont happen on accident. theyre the result of creativity innovative thinking and in the majority of cases a lot of research. two critical pieces of the research puzzle include market research and user research each with its own distinctive purpose. product managers need both but at different points and for different purposes over a products development and lifecycle. in this article well address the differences between user research and market research and explain when you would want to use each. what is market research market research is a way for businesses to get a realistic snapshot of a potential market. in its most basic form it provides a broad highlevel understanding of a market or industry in order to help determine a products potential. market research seeks to answer questions like does a market exist for this product who are our target customers and what challenges do they have how large is the total addressable market tam what does the competitive landscape look like in the space conducting careful detailed research early on can save organizations a lot of headaches by identifying risks before too much is invested in a product. some of these risks can be overcome through smart design while others can be part of the decision to shelve an idea. that said market research can also identify new opportunities and real gaps waiting to be filled. when to conduct market researchgenerally market research is used in the earliest stages of a products development to verify whether there is sufficient potential demand. but thats not the only time it makes sense to use market research. market research can help with any of the following when confirming potential demand for s product during new product developmentwhen seeking to improve an existing product to strengthen competitive differentiation and or increase market sharewhen expanding an existing products reach into new marketsmarket research is absolutely essential for new products. otherwise the product is set up for failure. a product idea has to be researched before anyone will invest in it. there has to be an unanswered need out there for it. this is why the industry and competition review side of market research is so important. market research can also find new customers for redesigned products. or the same product can be expanded into other markets if market research bears this out. market research methodsthe vast majority of market research focuses on collecting quantitative insight but some market research methods also gather qualitative data. common market research methods include literature reviews often with trade and industry journals. largescale surveysinterviews with experts in the industry. market research isnt so much about asking people questions as its about seeking information to justify investing in or passing up on a products development. for most companies its about measuring the potential to make money. what is user research user research often overlaps with market research particularly for products that compete with others already on the market or which are undergoing an upgrade or redesign. but the two are not the same. user research generally looks at narrower populations than those in market research and focuses on learning about user behaviors. user research can be broadly defined as a way to gain insights into user behaviors needs and motivations. user research can help answer questions like how are potential users currently solving the problem we want to solve how well do those solutions work for them how are current users using the product what do users wish they could do differently with the product how could we change the product to make users happier when to conduct user researchuser research is typically only necessary after market research has determined yes there is a market out there. user research is useful at various stages in a products development cycle. here are a few situations where youd want to conduct user research when deciding what to build nextwhen validating a problem and possible solutionduring the design process to make sure potential designs are intuitiveproduct managers time is better spent in user research than market research. they know how the product is intended to be used and should be open to new information that can lead to improvements. they often identify with users or at least understand their motivations which helps them notice and capture more subtle clues about how a product is used and how it can be enhanced. user research methodsthere are countless different user research methods out there. user research usually focuses on gathering qualitative information. user research methods commonly include usability testsfocus groups and customer interviewsuser surveysanalyzing user feedback elsewhere online i. e. in forums on social media on review sites face to face user research is often cited as the gold standard in this type of research. but it is not always easy to arrange a face to face meeting with users and it can get expensive if theres a lot of travel involved. for that reason jakob nielsen suggests using other methods to approximate focus groups such as email surveys and assessing comments on websites and in newsgroups. he doesnt necessarily suggest replacing focus groups but perhaps balancing them against these less expensive methodscombining user research and market researchboth market and user research should be ongoing throughout a products lifecycle elisabeth mischel writes in mediapost. mischel who is vice president of the digital marketing platform insights urges product development teams to keep a close eye on what the competition is doing. she also urges them to look at new products that come to market and how customers react to them a kind of distance version of user research. new products from competitors should be evaluated to see advantages that can be addressed in upcoming product redesigns. in truth market and user research overlap a lot as a product ages on the market. christian rohrer writing about user research methods for the nielsen norman group blog offers a useful model that demonstrates different approaches to user research that also serves as a way to understand where it differs and overlaps with market research. the further out you take user research and look at qualitative why and how to fix and quantitative how many and how much data the closer you get to market research. bring it in closer and theres more of a mix of user research. case study combining user and market research to expand into new marketslets take a look at a reallife example of these two types of research working together for one market in particular. a decade ago the market for glutenfree food was pretty sparse limited to people with celiac disease who are unable to process gluten. glutenfree diets typically bar products that also have high carbohydrate content and food manufacturers spotted this no doubt through market research as another entryway into the very lucrative diet food market. they were right sales for glutenfree foods rose each year from ending close to the billion mark according to market research from the firm packaged facts and as reported in food navigator. by sales for the baked goods segment of the gluten free market alone were well over billion. its now estimated that by annual sales of gluten free products will exceed billion. how did food manufacturers grow this market they conducted customer research user research to find out what people new to the glutenfree diet missed most. this is the kind of user research that finetunes new markets and products. user and market research better togetherlets review. while there are some similarities between user research and market research its important to understand how the two differ. market research provides a scope a big picture of who will use a product. it can also help identify additional customer segments and markets. user research helps product managers and their teams see where a products appeal can be strengthened. for new products its most useful in the prototype stage and in the aftermarket stage. think about the people pitching their products on shark tank. those whove conducted both market and user research thoroughly are the ones who get offers. insufficient market research youre dead to mr. wonderful and probably mark cuban. user research lacking youve lost mark herjavec and barbara corcoran. damond john and lori greiner rarely jump in alone. join over poeple who receive biweekly product feedback tips. what is jobs to be done jtbd jobs to be done sign in get started concepts faq finding jobs designing for jobs examples resources what is jobs to be done jtbd alan klement follow oct min read the designers at intercom intercom. com use this illustration to show what is and isnt important to customers. upgrade your user not your product. dont build better cameras build better photographers. kathy sierra ten thousand years ago we were hunter gatherers and used our feet to roam the earth. today we have fast food restaurants and autonomous cars. why did we change because we have an intrinsic desire to evolve ourselves. we do this by remaking and adapting to the world around us. the desire to evolve is in our dna. its what makes us human. moreover we do this evolution with purpose. we purposefully use the arts to evolve ourselves emotionally the sciences to evolve ourselves intellectually and engineering to evolve how we interact with the world. purposeful evolution is why we are different from animals a bear trying to catch food by the river may think i wish fishing could be made better faster or easier. but only a human will think fishing is no good. if i could transform that lagoon over there into a place where i can breed fish then id never have to go fishing again. the bear thinks only about what is. today it may come up with a better faster or easier way to fish. but tomorrow it is still a bear that fishes. the human on the other hand thinks about what ought to be. today she fishes but tomorrow that can change. if she could figure out a way to no longer fish then she can focus on improving herself in other ways like building a hut so she could move out of that dank cave. the bear does not think about evolving itself and its world. it never has a job to be done. the human on the other hand does think about evolving herself. and every time she begins the process of evolving herself she has a job to be done. improve your lifesituation become more than you are charles revson founder of revlon perfectly encapsulates a jtbd when he said in the factory we make cosmetics in the drugstore we sell hope. with these words revson marks the difference between what customers buy and why they buy it. this thinking was also carried over into revlons advertising. in revlons breakout advertising campaign was fire and ice figure. the advertising campaign makes it clear revlon isnt selling a product its selling a new me. in fact theres barely any mention of any product. one whole page is a check list of provocative questions the other features a picture of model dorian leigh. only on further investigation do you notice the lipstick and nail polish at the bottom of the page. figure. what is being sold here lipstick and nail polish or a new me a job to be done is neither found nor spontaneously created. rather it is designed. the checklist of provocative questions such as have you ever wanted to wear an ankle bracelet exists to help customers imagine i. e. design what new me will be created when they buy revlons products. then theres the picture of dorian leigh. upon seeing that consumers continue to design a new version of myself in my mind. for some the new me looks like her. for others the new me is with her. whatever the case if this new me is something i want i begin desiring it. in other words i have a job to be done. everyone designs who devises courses of action aimed at changing existing situations into preferred ones. herbert a. simon a job to be done defined jobs to be done is a theory of consumer action. it describes the mechanisms that cause a consumer to adopt an innovation. the theory states that markets grow evolve and renew whenever customers have a job to be done and then buy a product to complete it get the job done. this makes a job to be done a process it starts it runs and it ends. the key difference however is that a jtbd describes how a customer changes or wishes to change. with this in mind we define a jtbd as follows a job to be done is the process a consumer goes through whenever she aims to change her existing lifesituation into a preferred one but cannot because there are constraints that stop her. products enable customers to get a job done figure. samuel hulick uses this illustration to show how customers use products to design a new me. humans are limited in our abilities. we cant create a new me by ourselves. a snap of our fingers cannot create a world where a morning commute is an enjoyable experience. realizing such a change requires innovation on the part of oneself or someone else. progress can only happen when we attach and integrate new ideas and new products into our lives. an example of constructing i. e. designing a job to be done comes from a research project i led to understand what job or jobs customers were hoping to get done i. e. what new me customers were hoping to create with a project management software. here is a synopsis of one interview. notice how the hero of our story comes to realize a new me is possible and how he must attach a product to himself to attain that new me. andreas began a business around medical tourism. over time he grew his business to include five employees. one day he was out with a friend of his jamie at a coffee shop. during their conversation jamie mentioned a product called basecamp to andreas. andreas had never heard of it. he was curious to learn more. jamie explained to andreas that basecamp was a project management tool that helped small businesses become better at organizing themselves. andreas was surprised by this. he knew about complicated project management products like microsoft project but those were for big companies only not smaller ones like his. currently andreas was using google sheets google docs and email to run his company. he just assumed that well thats how companies his size operated. jamie further explained that basecamp was made specifically to help companies his size. as jamie spoke andreass mind began racing basecamp could help my company stay organized as it adds more customers and employees. up until this point he had just assumed that his company had hit its growth limit. andreas and jamie enjoyed their coffee and parted ways. during his train ride home andreas looked up basecamp on his mobile device. he also learned about and investigated similar products to basecamp. in the end he decided to go with basecamp. he signed up for it began using it and grew his company beyond five employees for the first time. this is what a job to be done looks like. a consumer goes along his life as hes come to know it. then things change. he is presented with an opportunity for selfbetterment that is make changes so he can grow. when or if he finds a product that helps him realize that growth opportunity he can evolve to that better version of himself he had imagined. besides demonstrating a jtbd well andreass story also demonstrates that creating a new me i. e. having a jtbd is a process. its not something that consumers have its something consumers participate in. thats why its called a job to be done. a comparable example is falling in love. falling in love isnt something you have its something you participate in. and just as you cant complete the fallinlove process by yourself a customer cant complete a jtbd by himself. he needs a product to help him design construct and complete it. what isnt a job to be done figure. don normans book the design of everyday things features activitycentereddesign and the seven stages of actions seen here. this theory formed the basis of methods such as task analysis and humancomputer interaction. while many of us have been applying customer jobs for a while rick pedi and john palmer have been developing customer jobs since the s it has gained popularity only recently. and like so many things that spread quickly many people have distorted and misinterpreted it. the biggest mistake i see is thinking of a job to be done as an activity or task. examples include store and retrieve music or listen to music. these are not jobs rather they are tasks and activities which means they describe how you use a product or what you do with it. for example music streaming products such as pandora and spotify were designed specifically so customers didnt have to store and retrieve music like when they used cds or mp s. as far as listen to music that is a broad activity that varies wildly depending on the context. someone listening to music so he can maintain his motivation during a workout is engaging in a very different activity than someone going to the opera to listen to music. i gave a business partner a watch to show my appreciation for his hard work. what was my job to be done how can my jtbd be functional if i never directly use it besides there are already brilliant design methods out there to help you design for tasks and activities. examples include activity theory don normans activitycentered design figure and humancomputer interaction hci. if you want to learn more about how to design for activities go there. there are not different types of jobs. another common mistake is to think that there are types of jobs. in particular some may think there are emotional function and social jobs. ill describe why its a bad idea from both a practical and theoretical perspective. practically youll be more successful when you think of every customer job as unique. weve learned that while many jobs share the same core emotional desires e. g. belonging selfexpression control etc. each job is a unique combination of these desires. that is why each product should deliver on these core emotional desires in its own way. a good example is facebook. a lot of people use facebook because it taps into desires such as control selfexpression and belonging but it does so in its own unique way. so instead of saying that there are types of jobs youll be much better off thinking that each job is unique. theoretically that is from an ontological and epistemological perspective customer jobs are design artificial problems not natural problems. natural problems are falsifiable. this means they can be objectively measured and determined as either true or false q is argon ar a noble gas a if under conditions x it reacts then yes otherwise no. design problems on the other hand are not falsifiable and cannot be objectively measured q is this painting any good person yes. person no. with respect to jobs then no objective test can be created to say this is a social job. that is not a social job. if i buy a ferrari to impress other people is it a social job because i reference other people or should we rephrase it as an insecurity making it a personal or emotional job and because theres no way to objectively define each type of job every person on the team will have his or her own opinion of what type of job it should be. moreover even if when you do get consensus so what isnt knowing that i bought a ferrari because i want to fit in good enough what do you gain by labeling it a social or personal job ill tell you absolutely nothing. take it from me dont waste your time trying to dissect jobs into different types. its about as productive as trying to answer how many angels can dance on the head of a pin is it a customer job does it describe a new me or something else when presented with a possible description of a customer job the best framework of thinking i can offer you is the decision tree in figure. figure. is it a customer job or something else keep in mind that a job to be done describe the better me. it answers the question how are you better since you started using product renowned psychologist albert bandura described humans as proactive aspiring organisms. customer jobs carries this idea into markets making the claim that we buy and use things to improve ourselves to make progress. if youre not describing a customer job in terms of progress youre probably describing something else. where does jtbd theory come from the greatest and most helpful theories are not created by one person but are the result of many people over a long period figure. this is certainly the case with jtbd. its principles have emerged from the work of a long lineage of researchers and innovators. here are the most notable. figure. a genealogy of customer jobs. joseph schumpeter and creative destruction. the roots of jtbd go back at least seventyfive years to joseph schumpeter and his introduction of creative destruction. schumpeter observed that new innovations steal customers from incumbent offerings and then eventually go on to replace them. at one time horses and ships were our primary methods of personal transportation. eventually trains replaced horses but then cars and airplanes replaced those trains and ships. customer jobs incorporates schumpeters insights as it seeks to understand why customers pick one way of doing things over another. yes innovators create new solutions but the wheels of creative destruction turn only through the interaction between customers and innovators. customer jobs also incorporates another one of schumpeters brilliant insights that is almost always overlooked. schumpeter argued that competition should not be measured only among products of the same type. he insisted that competition can come from anywhere. you might think youre alone in a market or have market superiority but some competitor unknown to you could be stealing away your customers. your only sign that something is wrong is decreasing sales. in chapter we take a close look at customer jobs creative destruction and competition. w. edwards deming and systems thinking. schumpeters influence on customer jobs is restricted mostly to factors of market dynamics and competition however w. edwards deming has influenced customer jobs the most. those who are familiar with his nearly sixty years of contribution to theories of management and innovation will recognize his fingerprints throughout this book. demings most notable influence comes from his development of systems thinking which i discuss in chapter. throughout demings career he frequently reminded businesses that producers and customers are connected by systems the customer and producer must work together as a system. the consumer is the most important part of the production line. deming often challenged companies to remember creative destruction. he impressed on business leadership that simply making a product better and better improving what already exists wasnt enough. sooner or later someone will invent something new. he would tell businesses the following makers of vacuum tubes improved year by year the power of vacuum tubes. customers were happy. but then transistor radios came along. happy customers of vacuum tubes deserted vacuum tubes and ran for the pocket radio. a dissatisfied customer does not complain he just switches. deming understood that improving products of today continually isnt enough we must keep asking what new product or service would help our customers more what will we be making five years from now ten years from now for deming the process of innovation should never stop. psychology. on the psychology front youll run into influences from gary klein amos tversky daniel kahneman george loewenstein and ann graybiel. these are psychologists and scientists whose work forms the foundations of behavioral economics and naturalistic decision making ndm. their work helps us understand how and why customers dont make rational decisions when buying and using products are inconsistent in their opinions of products and dont always act in their best interest. customer jobs understands that if you want to make a great product and to develop a message that connects with customers you have to understand the emotional forces that shape their motivation. bringing it all together. then you arrive at john b. palmer rick pedi and bob moesta. in the s they began working together to combine their respective experiences into the first customer jobs principles. they are the ones who came up with the idea and language that customers have jobs that they are trying to get done. a social media marketing strategy is a summary of everything you plan to do and hope to achieve on social media. it guides your actions and lets you know whether youre succeeding or failing. every post reply like and comment should serve a purpose. the more specific your strategy is the more effective the execution will be. keep it concise. dont make your plan so lofty and broad that its unattainable or impossible to measure. in this post well walk you through an eightstep plan to create a winning social media marketing plan of your own. bonus get a free social media strategy template to quickly and easily plan your own strategy. also use it to track results and present the plan to your boss teammates and clients. how to create a social media strategystep. set social media marketing goals that align to business objectivesset s. m. a. r. t. goalsthe first step to creating a winning strategy is to establish your objectives and goals. without goals you have no way to measure success or return on investment roi. each of your goals should be specificmeasurableattainablerelevanttimeboundthis is the s. m. a. r. t. goal framework. it will guide your actions and ensure they lead to real business results. track meaningful metricsvanity metrics like retweets and likes are easy to track but its hard to prove their real value. instead focus instead on targets such as leads generated web referrals and conversion rate. for inspiration take a look at these essential social media metrics. you may want to track different goals for different channels or even different uses of each channel. for example benefit cosmetics drives brand awareness with its paid social campaigns but measures acquisition and engagement for organic social posts. view this post on instagramcaption this best answers might just win a benefit package hoolaa post shared by benefit cosmetics us on mar at pm pdtmake sure to align your social media goals with your overall marketing strategy. this will make it easier for you to show the value of your work and get executive buyin and investment. table showing how social media goals can align to over business objectives. start developing your social media marketing plan by writing down at least three goals for social media. step. learn everything you can about your audiencecreate audience personasknowing who your audienceand ideal customeris and what they want to see on social is key to creating content that they will like comment on and share. its also critical if you want to turn social media followers into customers for your business. try creating audience buyer personas. these allow you to think of your potential fans followers and customers as real people with real wants and needs. and that will allow you to think more clearly about what to offer them. gather realworld datadont make assumptions. think facebook is a better network for reaching baby boomers than millennials well the numbers show that millennials still outnumber boomers on the platform. social marketing demographic datasocial media analytics can also provide a ton of valuable information about who your followers are where they live which languages they speak and how they interact with your brand on social. these insights allow you to refine your strategy and better target your social ads. jugnoo an uberlike service for autorickshaws in india used facebook analytics to learn that percent of their users who referred other customers were between and yearsold and percent of that group was using android. they used that information to target their ads resulting in a percent lower cost per referral. check out our guide to using social media analytics and the tools you need to track them. step. research the competitionodds are your competitors are already using social mediaand that means you can learn from what theyre already doing. conduct a competitive analysisa competitive analysis allows you to understand who the competition is and what theyre doing well and not so well. youll get a good sense of whats expected in your industry which will help you set social media targets of your own. this analysis will also help you spot opportunities. for example maybe one of your competitors is dominant on facebook but has put little effort into twitter or instagram. you might want to focus on the networks where your audience is underserved rather than trying to win fans away from a dominant player. engage in social listeningsocial listening is another way to keep an eye on the competition. heres how to use hootsuite streams for social listening and monitoring competitors as you track competitor accounts and relevant industry keywords you may notice shifts in the way these channels are used. or you might spot a specific post or campaign that really hits the markor totally bombs. keep an eye on this information and use to it evaluate your own goals and plans. step. conduct a social media auditexamine your current effortsif youre already using social media tools you need to take a step back and look at what youve already done and accomplished. ask yourself the following questions whats working and whats not who is connecting with you on social which networks does your target audience use how does your social media presence compare to that of your competitors once you gather all this information in one place youll have a good starting point for planning how to improve your results. weve created a social media audit template that you can follow for each step of the process. screenshot of the social media audit templateyour audit should give you a clear picture of what purpose each of your social accounts serves. if the purpose of an account isnt clear think about whether its worth keeping. to help you decide ask yourself the following questions is my audience here if so how are they using this platform can i use this account to help achieve meaningful business goalsasking these tough questions will help keep your strategy on track and focused. look for impostor accountsduring the audit you may discover fraudulent accounts using your business name or the names of your products. these imposters can be harmful to your brand never mind capturing followers that should be yours. report them. you may want to get your facebook and twitter accounts verified to ensure your fans and followers know they are dealing with the real you. step. set up accounts and improve existing profilesdetermine which networks to use and how to use them as you decide which social channels to use you will also need to define your strategy for each network. for example benefit cosmetics social media manager angela purcaro told emarketer for our makeup tutorials were all about snapchat and instagram stories. twitter on the other hand is designated for customer service. for reference heres how other small and mediumsized businesses are using social tools to communicate with customers. notice that facebook and instagram outrank even email for this purpose. social media marketingits a good exercise to create mission statements for each network. these onesentence declarations will help you focus on a very specific goal for each account on each social network. example we will use facebook advertising to target a specific audience in order to increase sales. one more we will use instagram for promoting and sharing our company culture to help with recruitment and employee advocacy. if you cant create a solid mission statement for a particular social network you may want to reconsider whether that network is worth it. set up and optimize your accountsonce youve decided which networks to focus on its time to create your profilesor improve existing profiles so they align with your strategic plan. make sure you fill out all profile fieldsuse keywords people will use to search for your businessuse images that are correctly sized for each network dont let this list overwhelm you. remember its better to use fewer channels well than to stretch yourself thin trying to maintain a presence on every network. step. find inspirationwhile its important that your brand be unique you can still draw inspiration from other businesses that are great on social. social network success storiesyou can usually find these on the business section of the social networks website. heres facebooks for example. these case studies can offer valuable insights you can apply to your own goals for each social network. awardwinning accounts and campaignsyou could also check out the winners of the facebook awards or the shorty awards for examples of brands that are at the top of their social media game. your favorite brands on social media. who do you enjoy following on social media what do they do that compels people to engage and share their content national geographic for example is one of the best on instagram combining stunning visuals with compelling captions. view this post on instagramphoto by sunset casts down rays of light onto the endless karst formations of the getu valley china. this humid part of the country is primarily an agricultural area where rice wheat corn and soy beans are grown all pressed against a backdrop of pure beauty. a post shared by national geographic on mar at pm pdtthen theres shopify. the ecommerce brand uses facebook to sell themselves by showcasing customer stories and case studies. and ikea is a great example of superior customer service on twitter. they use their characters to solve problems and answer questionsoften with a bit of humor. thats not the right type of smashing delivery service that we like to see please dm us your order number full name address and contact info so we can assist you. cb. co xbb cj asl ikeaiesupport march notice that each of these accounts has a consistent voice tone and style. consistency is key to helping your followers understand what to expect from your brand. theyll know why they should continue to follow you and what value they will get from doing so. it also helps keep your branding consistent even when you have multiple people working on your social team. for more on this read our guide on establishing a compelling brand voice on social media. ask your followersconsumers can also offer social media inspiration. what are your target customers talking about online what can you learn about their wants and needs if you have existing social channels you could also ask your existing followers what they want from you. just make sure that you follow through and deliver what they ask for. step. create a social media content calendarsharing great content is essential of course but its equally important to have a plan in place for when youll share content to get the maximum impact. your social media content calendar also needs to account for the time youll spend interacting with the audience although you need to allow for some spontaneous engagement as well. create a posting scheduleyour social media content calendar lists the dates and times at which you will publish types of content on each channel. its the perfect place to plan all of your social media activitiesfrom images and link sharing to blog posts and videos. it includes both your daytoday posting and content for social media campaigns. your calendar ensures your posts are spaced out appropriately and published at the optimal times. plot your content mixmake sure your calendar reflects the mission statement youve assigned to each social profile so that everything you post is working to support your business goals. for example you might decide that percent of content will drive traffic back to your blog percent of content will be curated from other sources percent of content will support enterprise goals selling lead generation etc. percent of content will be about hr and company cultureplacing these different post types in your content calendar will help ensure you maintain the ratio youve planned. if youre starting from scratch and youre simply not sure what types of content to post try the rule percent of your posts should inform educate or entertain your audience percent can directly promote your brand. you could also try the social media rule of thirds onethird of your social content promotes your business converts readers and generates profit. onethird of your social content shares ideas and stories from thought leaders in your industry or likeminded businesses. onethird of your social content involves personal interactions with your audience. once you have your calendar set use scheduling tools or bulk scheduling to prepare your messaging in advance rather than updating constantly throughout the day. this allows you to craft the language and format of your posts rather than writing them on the fly whenever you have time. step. test evaluate and adjust your strategyyour social media strategy is a hugely important document for your business and you cant assume youll get it exactly right on the first try. as you start to implement your plan and track your results you may find that some strategies dont work as well as youd anticipated while others are working even better than expected. track your datain addition to the analytics within each social network see step you can use utm parameters to track social visitors as they move through your website so you can see exactly which social posts drive the most traffic to your website. reevaluate test and do it all againonce this data starts coming in use it to reevaluate your strategy regularly. you can also use this information to test different posts campaigns and strategies against one another. constant testing allows you to understand what works and what doesnt so you can refine your strategy in real time. surveys can also be a great way to find out how well your strategy is working. ask your followers email list and website visitors whether youre meeting their needs and expectations and what theyd like to see more of. then make sure to deliver on what they tell you. in the social sphere things change fast. new networks emerge while others go through significant demographic shifts. your business will go through periods of change as well. all of this means that your social media strategy should be a living document that you look at regularly and adjust as needed. refer to it often to keep you on track but dont be afraid to make changes so that it better reflects new goals tools or plans. when you update your social strategy make sure to let everyone on your team know. that way they can all work together to help your business make the most of your social media accounts. social media strategy templatehow to come up with startup ideas that are worth your time sign in get started founder stories vc corner find a startup grind near you how to come up with startup ideas that are worth your time execution is worth more than the idea. this is a silicon valley adage thats been repeated millions of times. and theres a valid reason why people repeat it so often. new entrepreneurs often cling zealously to their ideas. in the most extreme cases theyll ask you to sign an nda before telling you what it is. any startup expert would jump at the chance to inform them their idea is worth nothing. but this response is being taken too far. sure an idea remains just an idea if its not realized. but in the hands of capable people it morphs into a compelling mission. venture capitalists often look for missiondriven founders. what does this mean it means they want to fund entrepreneurs who are passionate about their ideas. this passion will enable them to overcome tremendous hurdles and make others around them care about their mission. so how do you come up with good startup ideas if thats what youre wondering in your head take a step back. trying to pluck good ideas out of thin air is a wasted effort. instead you want to look for problems first. a better question is how do you find problems worth solving. turn off autopilot and be aware of whats going on around you. inefficiencies in the world and problems you and your friends face daily are potential opportunities. most people hit these obstacles groan internally and move on. they dont think about why these obstacles exist and whether they can be solved. becoming aware is much easier said than done because it requires a fundamental change in being. the way i remember to do this is reminding myself as often as possible. i put be aware on my todo list calendar and postit notes. i also use papier to remind myself every time i open a new tab. but if your schedule is filled to capacity every single day you wont have the time or energy to reflect on the world. always set aside some empty space in your day for you to think about whats happening around you. . replay your day in your head and think about what problems you faced. turning off autopilot will help you generate great ideas over time but what if you want to come up with new ideas right now one way is to hack the first approach by replaying your day in your head. think of what you did and the problems you faced as you went about your life. some of these problems may be valuable business pursuits. try to revisit unique events. for example the problems you face while traveling in a foreign country or attending a concert will be very different from those you face in your regular. . read scifi books and watch scifi movies. entrepreneurs like elon musk have often credited scifi for inspiring them to tackle ambitious ideas. the best scifi books and movies capture audacious visions of the future. some of these visions are a little crazy in their scope but the current tech world needs some of that lunacy. these days silicon valley is obsessed with small frivolous things that will make a quick buck. for every company like spacex and magic leap there are dozens working on trivial things. im not saying things like social networking and messaging arent important. if nobody worked on them we wouldnt have facebook and whatsapp which connect billions of people. but wouldnt it be amazing if more people dedicated themselves to scarier problems instead of walking paths tread millions of times before read and watch scifi then build yourself a future beyond your wildest dreams. . branch out and try new things. inspiration strikes at the intersection of different things. whether its taking up a new hobby or traveling to another continent you expose yourself to more problems and more possible solutions. scott kaufman a psychology researcher has stated that the drive for exploration in its many forms may be the single most important personal factor predicting creative achievement. if you take a look at successful startups today youll find that many of them deal with fields that arent techbased. for example stitch fix solves problems in fashion classpass in fitness soylent in food i can go on and on. a onetrick pony will never be able to make novel connections that lead to new solutions. so go out there and try new things trying new things is intrinsically linked to the first approach of turning off autopilot. deviating from your regular routine jolts your mind out of its default setting. and when your mind is actively making connections finding problems worth solving is a breeze. . talk to people around you but not too much. talking to people doesnt mean conducting formal interviews or brainstorming sessions. just be a curious and empathetic friend. get to know more people on a personal level learn about their passions and understand what problems they face in their lives. the more people you talk to the greater the pool of shared experience and expertise youll have access to which will stimulate your mind to make new connections. plus the ultimate goal is to make a product that solves problems for people. going out there and understanding how different people live their lives is instrumental to realizing that goal. but you should also give yourself alone time to think. researchers have proven that when you tune out the outside world your brain improves at making novel connections. . take care of yourself. to succeed at anything in life you need to be in good physical and mental condition. coming up with startup problems is no different. creativity is built on a healthy body and a healthy mind so dont mistreat yourself. this is a popular piece of advice but many entrepreneurs dont following it. it has something to do with the cult of overwork where entrepreneurs pride themselves on how many hours they spend on their venture. its a twisted way of thinking but its easy to succumb to especially if many people around you are doing the same thing. resist the peer pressure. when youre trying to find and solve problems quality of time spent matters way more than quantity. dont neglect eating well and exercising. final thoughts theres no right way to come up with startup ideas. you might find something worth solving in the shower or at the end of an intense brainstorming session. you cant predict when inspiration will strike but you can do things to help you generate good ideas. a lot of online startup advice nowadays will tell you not to rush into a startup because the best idea is one that occurs naturally. but this isnt an excuse for you to be lazy. be proactive in looking for problems and ideas. discovering an initial idea is like unearthing a strain of gold. if youre a miner would you pat yourself on the back and then move on no you want to find out how deep that strain goes. so take your mental pickaxe and keep digging until you collect all the gold. keep going long enough you just might find a diamond. whether its a stock investment or your own companys financial records that youre evaluating the percent sales growth is one of many financial analysis tools used to assess a companys overall strength in the marketplace. in order to calculate the percent sales growth youll need current and historical sales revenue information from each companys income statement. note however that sales growth is just one measure of a companys performance there are other factors to consider as well. sales growth equationto arrive at the percent sales growth from one financial period to another youll first need the ratios equation so that you know which figures from the income statement to plug in. the equation is current period net sales prior period net sales prior period net sales. net sales is equal to gross or total sales revenue minus discounts customer returns and allowances for damaged and defective merchandise. income statement informationfrom the income statement of the company youre evaluating sales growth for plug the relevant net sales figures for the relevant periods into the equation and compute to arrive at the percent sales growth. when reviewing income statements note that its common practice for companies to report net sales as just sales. since the percent sales growth equation requires historical financial results a comparative income statement that reports net sales for the current period as well as for recent prior periods is essential. if youre unable to obtain a comparative income statement it may be necessary to locate the separate income statements for each year. calculating percent growthsuppose you wanted to know what a companys percent sales growth is from its fiscal year ending on jan. to the year ending jan. . in the earlier year net sales totaled million but in the next fiscal year net sales increased to million. subtracting the prior period from the current one results in a million difference. you then divide this difference by prior period net sales which equals approximately. . to express this as a percent multiply the result by to arrive at a percent sales growth. things to considera single percent sales growth figure has limited usefulness if other relevant factors such as the industry a company operates in the sales growth of competitors and even trends of decreasing rates of growth are ignored. for example one companys percent sales growth may initially seem admirable but when compared to a competitors percent growth between the same two fiscal periods percent may start to seem average. and despite a companys consistent growth a decrease in the rate of growth over a number of fiscal periods may offer deeper insight into a companys future strength. what is product strategy how to develop a product strategy. marketing management articleswhenever a new product launches in the market it is difficult for the company or brand to forecast where the product will reach or how it will shape up. at such times brands design the product strategy. the product strategy determines all the steps which a brand will have to take to make the product a success. alternatively because this is how a strategy works the brand also has to decide what to do if the product is a failure of it is not gaining traction in the market. page contentsso what is a product strategy you can call a product strategy to be the vision of the product. if a company launches a product then it has a vision of where the product will reach. the product strategy is the bare bone planning of the steps to ensure the product reaches the desired space. such a strategy helps in setting the right direction for the product. product strategy helps in deciding the basic elements of a product such as its marketing mix and its design. at the same time it also helps in targeting the product to the right segment product line stretching etc. all this will be discussed in the steps to develop a product strategy. a common terminology used in product strategy is the product roadmap which means the sequential step of events which need to take place to ensure maximum penetration of the product and maximum product adoption in the market. product strategy helps the formation of the product roadmap. importance of product strategyit helps decide the exact steps to be taken in any event to make the product a success. it prepares the company for response by competitors or towards changing market conditions. it helps the company decide the target market and in market penetration. a product vision is formed thereby setting the product on an independent path with a time to time intervention allowing the company to focus on multiple products in a short time. steps to develop a product strategy how to develop a product strategy a lot of product analysis is needed to develop a strategy. besides product you need to analyze your competitors the market and various segments so that you can come up with the right product strategy. here are the steps of product strategy. related organizational buyingproduct strategy marketing mixthe product is the most important element of the marketing mix. if you have decided on a market segment to target then product design plays a crucial role. this is because a change in the product brings a change in all the other elements of the marketing mix. be it a service or a product the marketing mix majorly depends on the product for other aspects like promotions place and price. you need to consider the marketing mix while deciding on the product strategy. you also need to consider various aspects of the product such as product line and length what would be the packaging of the product and what kind of labelling will be involved. in essence the core aspects of the product and its contribution to the marketing mix is decided in this step. example while deciding on an electronics product strategy you need to decide the various product line and length that a single model will have. you also need to decide the packaging and labelling to use besides considering the effect of all these expenses on the marketing mix. levels of a producta product has various levels. one of the articles on this site discusses the three levels of a product which includes the core product the actual product and the augmented product. the article also discusses examples of the same so if you want to know the three levels of a product then click here. a marketer needs to assume the various levels of a product while deciding the product strategy. example an automobile manufacturer or an equipment manufacturer needs to give service along with the product to the end customer. if the manufacturer does not give service then the product will not sell. hence at such a time the manufacturer has to understand the important role of the augmented product in the product strategy. without the various levels of the product and their proper implementation the product strategy can fail. type of productsthe product that you are designing will be of which type there are various types of products. of these types are discussed in this article. however while deciding the product strategy you need to consider what is the type you want to target some of them aredurable products nondurable productsshopping goods specialty goods convenience goodsindustrial goods consumer goodsservice productsdeciding on the type of product can help you in determining how to penetrate your target market. stp is an important step in strategy but this step will clear your mind on which segment you are going to target because the product is restricted to that segment only. related quantitative market research differentiationthere are various possibilities to differentiate a product or to differentiate services. we have detailed articles on each which you can find by clicking the links above. however to make it simpler here are the features which you can use to differentiate a product or a service. product form and product featuresproduct performance levelsreliability repairability durabilitystyle and designordering ease ease of installationcustomer service warranties and guaranteeas can be seen above these are critical decisionmaking elements for any consumer and by creating differentiation at the product level the product strategy becomes a sound strategy to compete on even grounds with the competitor. example american tourister is known for its durable luggage. the same goes for woodland shoes. these are brands which have targeted product reliability and durability as a differentiating factor right from the product strategy stage. as a result their complete marketing strategy is focused towards one direction promoting their products as far superior then competition due to the differentiating factors. product strategy brand elementsbrand identity and brand image are important considerations for the success of any company. naturally when deciding on the product strategy you need to decide the brand elements for the product. there can be numerous branding elements involved thereby giving more recognition for the product and accumulating more respect in the market. example victorinox as a brand has several elements which can help differentiate between the genuine products vs a fake one. it has a spring in its swiss knife which makes a distinct sound thereby confirming that the knife is genuine. similarly it has symbols on the top of the knife as well as in smaller tools within the knife to differentiate the genuine from the fake. the symbols are unique too thereby clearly helping the customers pick the right product. such brand elements are important for the recognition and adoption of the product in the market and they need to be created at the product strategy and product design stage itself. product designquite simply a computer is a generic product name whereas desktops laptops are all variants of a computer. the only difference between laptops and desktops is the product design. both of them have cpu and both have monitors. thus product design plays a crucial role in the success of a product and should be given due consideration while designing the product strategy. the technology market is built on product design. this is why smartphones have become a major crowd puller because of their differing aesthetics. if we want to talk about product design we just cannot ignore the fashion industry which is completely dependent on the design of the product to built its brand identity. fashion labels like gucci armani and others spend a fortune getting the design right. related what is cycle count what is cycle count processhere is an article on product design and its influence on the marketing of a product. product strategy product mixsometimes a single product might not make the cut but its product variant might be an instant hit. take shampoos for example. most in demand shampoo are the antidandruff shampoo. however besides this most of the top shampoo brands have a variety of products on offer with minor differences in ingredients. these are nothing but a combination of the product mix. this article explains best what product mix is and how to analyze it. various concepts are explained such as the product line length product line width product line depth product line consistency etc. in essence to cater to all the various types of customers out there a company can come up with a complete product mix so that each customer is satisfied with different variants of the same product. because a huge market share is covered with almost the same product product mix needs to be considered strongly in the product strategy stage. when all this information is in hand then the timeline matters. at the launch of the product you need your marketing mix in place. once you notice the rise of the product you can decide on the type of product mix you want to introduce in the market to encourage further purchases and to improve brand equity of the product. as said before a product strategy helps you prepare for the future of the product and to give the right targeted direction to the product. when you have a combination of multiple products and various product mixs the product strategy becomes very critical to make sense and to have the right tactics up your sleeve for each product. the allinone startup funding guide startup grind medium sign in get started founder stories vc corner find a startup grind near you the allinone startup funding guide pitch deck term sheets investors equity crowdfunding. there is a proven process to successfully raising startup funding. ive learned about the process over the years by getting to know a few of the worlds most successful serial entrepreneurs by raising millions myself from angels vcs by investing as an angel and as ceo of the vc fund equity investment platform crowdfunder. com. across all this investment and fundraising activity ive seen that the most successful fundraises have a several key elements in common. below are five parts to successful fundraising for your startup with specific examples templates and resources. the pitch deck every great startup begins with an idea. and even with the best startups over time that idea is deeply refined. creating your pitch deck is one of the best processes for getting your idea and business out of your head on paper and to enable continual questioning and refinement of your thinking and approach. i wrote a dedicated post on how to create the ultimate pitch deck. read through this as youre putting your deck together and use the template and examples there. and for now here are the high level takeaways on pitch decks follow the formula investors look for which i show you in my post investors dont write checks for decks the goal is to get a meeting call go deep on your meta narrative why this why now why you how give basic product traction points but less information more story to help you with your deck i created a template for you along with examples and resources of successfully funded startups and their pitch decks its all in the pitch deck post. this includes recommendations from vcs like dave mcclure of startups along with the actual deck that reid hoffman used to pitch and close greylock when they invested in linkedins series b. also go see successful fundraising pitch decks live in the wild. for this i recommend you go to crowdfunder and look at several of the vcbacked companies we have invested in from our fund and or who are fundraising online. some of these companies are fundraising publicly so you can flip through their decks. term sheets what to offer investors ive also written a detailed post on term sheets. it includes samples and templates from leading legal firms vc firms along with data and resources on how to think about the valuation of your company when youre fundraising. if you havent raised angel or venture capital funding before theres likely a lot you dont know about it from a legal structural and process standpoint. the high level fundraising process with investors goes like this the founder shapes terms of a financing e. g. in priced equity at a m premoney valuation the founder discusses these with investors and investors consider and respond a first investor decides they will invest at specific terms not always at the terms shaped by founder if founder accepts this can be formally or informally a lead investor someone credible who priced the round all the detailed legal documents get created or updated and the investment is finalized the founder goes out to raise the remainder of the round at same terms from other investors term sheets are used in this process to help founders and investors come to an initial agreement. again ive shared some great examples and templates for you in my post on term sheets. after terms are agreed to and the term sheet signed long form documents are drafted by legal counsel signed then money is wired. build your target investor hit list every great fundraiser aims high by first finding out who the best companies and investors are in their space and then learning about them and setting goals to to meet with them and capture their interest and investment. to this end you want to build a deep and ambitious investor hit list for yourself. this is a list on an excel spreadsheet of at least active investors notable angels vcs and high net worth people who have created sold invested in companies in your space. great fundraisers do great research to find these investors and are creative and resourceful in the ways they find to contact them directly. your first step is to search google for the leading investors in your space industry. google top angels and top investors. as a fintech company i might search for top fintech investors and i would find this list in the results which i would add to my hit list. this will help you build up your hit list of investors or more across both individual angel investors and vc firms. in your excel spreadsheet write down the names of the investors or firms and partners in those vc firms and what city theyre in. then use the online lists of investors to deepen and flesh out your list info at places like crunchbase linkedin crowdfunder. also leverage the success of companies that have come before you and raised money in your space. search for the names of companies you know have been very successful in related markets to yours and use these online investment sources and platforms to identify who the investors are who invested in those deals. these are also your target investors. with your hit list in hand youre ready for the next step in meeting and pitching investors preparing meeting pitching investors getting in front of investors takes several steps in preparation before you can expect to find and reach the right investors meet with these investors and close any funding. successful fundraisers put the following process into place before they go out to investors to make sure their time is well spent note im not including equity crowdfunding in this section on meeting investors but i cover that below. if you dont have a live product get as close to a working demo as possible wireframes designs etc. ive seen this be a simply a mock up of an entire app or screen shots cad designs etc. . just dont expect slides on a deck alone to do the trick and trigger interest. ideas are not what investors fund but detailed product plans progress teams and rollout strategy can be. . get friends family or yourself to put first money into the company round. . bring on an advisor or two with experience in a related space expect them to add value make intros. structure timing are critical and are your friends. set a specific time frame for your fundraise to include an outreach period terms period closing periods. tell investors exactly what the time frame and process is. often times i see great fundraising set the timing up as roughly two weeks for outreach scheduling four weeks of meetings where they meet with investors and discuss and negotiate terms and then four weeks of closing to follow where they get everyone in or not in a timely manner and with a final close deadline. the more you stick to your timing and your guns here the more that both you and your investors will respect your time and the more often investors respond more positively. . send a short pitch deck ahead of the meeting set expectations that you are asking for funding qualify. have an ask and suggested terms for the investment when you meet see term sheet section below. plan to hear no from all of your early meetings. knowing this go to the lower pressure and less significant investors first. use these meetings to get feedback and become more comfortable on your pitch. pay attention to what they question where they get hung up what they are excited by how you did well and where you were weaker. . expect a lot of nos and failure. everyone fails most of the time at fundraising until they dont. . celebrate the process of getting good investors to say no. i know this sounds odd but hear me out. every successful founder knows how hard fundraising is myself included. to feel better about myself in the fundraising process i developed a strange and unusual ritual that i took up in order to not feel as deflated at difficult points in the fundraising process. my ritual i make a point of it to celebrate how many nos i received. i actually look over the long list of all the investors who have passed in one long spreadsheet. looking at this i positively acknowledge myself for the hard work time and toughness it has taken to get this many meetings and hear this many nos. i also remind myself that this is part of what success looks like getting in front of lots of great investors while knowing that i will likely hear nos for every one yes early on. use equity crowdfunding to reach investors early stage funding across angel and venture capital is moving online. as little as two to three years ago it was against the law to raise funding for your startup online. but today there are new opportunities and new laws that allow you to raise money online from angels vcs and even everyday smaller investors see my post on the disruption of venture capital. in short new equity crowdfunding platforms are aggregating investors and can help you get in front of hundreds or thousands of investors in a short period of time. there are generally two categories of funding platforms those that help you raise money from high net worth investors accredited investors and investment firms vcs and those that help you raise money from everyday people nonaccredited. my recommendation to any startup founder is this first start by raising funding more traditionally offline and aim as high as you can to build great direct investor relationships. get a strong investor or two in if you can first as they bring strong follow on interest once youre on an equity crowdfunding platform. then look to leverage what youre already doing with an equity crowdfunding platform that works with high net worth investors first accrediteds. reason being you wont have to spend much in the way of added cost time or legal resources to put your company out to accredited investors meanwhile with nonaccredited investor platforms it is a longer and more complex and expensive process. the leading platforms for angels vcs and high net worth investors in terms of their size raised online include crowdfunder circleup and angellist. best of luck with your fundraising. unique ways to increase your network and generate more leads become a member sign in get started unique ways to increase your network and generate more leads. do you struggle generating leads is direct mail or other standard lead sources providing you with a suboptimal conversion rate it is likely that your lead problem is more of a secondary symptom and not the true cause. guy gimenez an investor that has completed more than flips and whose current focus is on wholesaling and retailing initially faced the same dilemma. however once he realized that he didnt have a lead problem rather a relationship problem his business skyrocketed. in our recent conversation guy provided practical ways to increase your network and in turn your real estate business google adwords and seo meetup groups anywhere you go. lead generation technique google adwords and seo guy obtains the majority of his leads online via google adwords seo and other payforclick services. however marketing in general and especially online marketing is outside of his wheelhouse. guy understands marketing is one of his many weaknesses which is why he works with those who can fulfill those weaknesses. he found such an individual at a meetup he started more on the meetup later. guy met a millennial that worked for a major company in town and like many in the millennial generation this gentleman had a knack for online marketing. guy realized that marketing is the engine that runs the business. yet it is something he is weak at. he doesnt want to take the time to learn it so he leverages other peoples time and talent to handle aspects of the business like marketing and then they share in the profits. as a result guy has partnered with the marketing millennial who handles all the back end marketing seo google adwords and all the payforclick. he brings in the leads into the company website and then guy takes everything from there. lead generation technique meetup group once guy realized the importance of relationships in generating leads he decided to start a meetup group. as a result he has gotten many deals and formed many great relationships that would not have existed if it wasnt for the meetup group. guy started the meetup group a little over years ago. he held first meeting at his church because that is the only location he could think of. going into the meeting guy didnt even know if anyone would show up. fortunately people ended up attending the first meeting. his initial intentions for starting the meetup were not to act like he was a guru. rather he was just someone that was looking to build relationships that would be beneficial to both parties. at the time guy had cash reserves as well as real estate experience and knowledge. on the other hand many investors that attend meetups lack the funds and proficiency. therefore guy figured that the meetup was the ideal way to help others earn money while they learned the insandouts of investing. in return he has been able to increase his network get great deals and find individuals to hire on his team which include the marketing millennial. flashing forward to today and due to guys authentic benevolent approach the meetup has grown to over members ranging from to members in attendance per meeting. for those that are ready to take on the challenge of starting their own meetup simply replicate guys meetup structure premeeting guy will advertise the meetup for a few weeks. his advertising approach is threefold put something on facebook and then boost the post attend other local meetups in the area and convey what his meetup is all about create an event on meetup. com. the advertisement is fairly simple. guy brings in different speakers each week so it consists of the speaker what the speaker will talk about as well as time pm to pm and location. the meetup is hosted at a local restaurant banquet room. due to the late meeting time it typically begins with everyone ordering dinner. the meeting officially commences with guy going over some housekeeping items i. e. reminder to pay for your meals overview of meeting structure introduction of speaker next the guest speaker presents which is immediately followed up a qa session. following the qa those in attendance have the opportunity to either promote a deal they have explain any need they have i. e. what they are looking for like a flip in a certain zip code advice on how to run the numbers etc. finally guy provides the attendees specifically the newer investors with an opportunity to tell a success story. also he asks more experienced investors to talk about a recent failure. lead generation technique anywhere you go while the first two methods were more specific this final one is more of a high level approach but powerful nonetheless. guy has the ability to form relationships anywhere he goes. and i mean anywhere walking down the street restaurants the grocery store etc. guy finds that so much of the population is frustrated. they hate their jobs they hate their life and are very apathetic. therefore it is amazing what you can do by touching one person everyday with something as simple as providing a compliment or telling a cheesy joke. you may not change their life forever but you may change their minute their hour or their day. by doing so you can absolutely build relationships and even find deals one such example occurred when guy was standing in line at the grocery store. when he got to the register he said to the cashier that is a very pretty dress. i have the same one at home but didnt wear it because i forgot to shave my legs today. she laughed and asked what guy did for a living. he explained that he is a real estate investor gave her his card and went on his merry way. within hour guy received a phone call. it was the cashier. she explained that her mother was losing the house that they already had a foreclosure date and asked if there was anything guy could do to help. all the stars were aligned on this one guy met her at the right time the cashier had the knowledge of her moms situation and the mom was actually relaying the situation to her daughter. as a result guy was eventually able to stop the foreclosure get the house under contract sold the property and made a nice profit. but just as important he solved a problem and took that pound gorilla off of their back. that cashier and her mom will never forget it. therefore it was the ultimate winwin scenario. however what guy did for her is he does for everyone. he simply solves problems and makes a profit in doing so. how many people do you know including yourself who reach out to strangers on a daily basis no matter where you go there is always an opportunity to touch someones life. and maybe just maybe they will touch yours as well. marketing lead generation networking investing written by joe fairless follow controls over of real estate and host of the best real estate investing advice ever show which is the worlds longest running daily podcast follow write the first response discoverthe basics of customer development for new entrepreneurs sign in get started young entrepreneur legal lean startup leadership crowdfunding investment customer success the basics of customer development for new entrepreneurs. so you have an idea a product or a vision you may even have some users or customers and you have committed to making your idea come to life. that officially makes you an entrepreneur which means your day to day life just got both easier and harder. the easy part is that you suddenly have access to feedback data from real live people your audience. they are right there ready to give you feedback and even inspiration. the complicated part is that there can be an overwhelming amount of information and its not always easy to know what to make of it. at the heart of this challenge is something that great product managers do they bridge the gap between internal teams and the market out there that wants or might want what youre building. which leads us to something called customer development many entrepreneurs and product managers put their own spin on it but the bottom line is that its about developing a relationship with customers and in the process creating a continuous loop of feedback to help inform how the product or company grows. the basics include putting together a strategy to get customer feedback both qualitative and quantitative stories analytics a framework to analyze and interpret that information and and a process for regularly taking action so your idea can go from a cool thing to a complete product. here are a few key ways to get that customer development loop started prepare yourself for feedback negative and positive finding the right customers reaching out to potential customers once you find customers collect data analyzing and using information prepare yourself for feedback negative and positive one of the very first things that a new business has to learn to do is watch their customers closely and without judgment. ryan carson the ceo of treehouse an online technology education platform wrote a post a few years ago about just how painful it can be to get facetoface feedback from a customer. he watched inperson as one of his customers attempted to sign onto their website. it was a brutal experience because in the process he realized that his own websites onboarding process was extremely difficult which was a significant problem for a company that actually teaches web development skills. if you get the chance to watch your customers whether thats looking at how people drop off during an online signup or inperson you need to be prepared for similarly painful experiences. never take it personally this sort of feedback is golden it will help you improve your product more quickly than just about anything else can and experienced founders welcome it with open arms. finding the right customers every business is different so there isnt one place you can go look to find the right customers. at the very beginning dont worry about the perfect fit instead start by finding any customers to begin the process. most entrepreneurs start with their friends and family the people who know them best and are willing to give honest feedback. most importantly dont be afraid to get detailed indepth feedback from a variety of customers and potential customers. once you work through that process you can then begin to build a customer profile so that you understand what type of people need want your product. focus more on interests and psychographics people who see themselves as diyers early technology adopters and less on demographics like age and gender. by understanding your customer profile youll have a better idea where they spend time online and in real life and have an easier time reaching them. that does not mean that you should create such a tight profile that you overlook other customertypes. keep your eyes and ears open at all time as you search for the right customers. often the challenge is to simply start getting information that you can sift through and then actually start thinking about and developing multiple profiles for people using your product you might hear some entrepreneurs or companies refer to this as separating people into buckets. reaching out to potential customers whatever you do dont fall for the idea that you can use the one channel of social selling to reach your potential customers. it is much more easy to ignore or not even see a message or post on social media than it is an email or even better and old fashioned cold call. its important to be conscious of what channels you are using to reach people and how you are measuring what works and what doesnt. again prepare yourself for rejection because that is part of sales. but you wont find any customers unless you reach out to a lot of people and are willing to do the hard work to understand what they need and want. trust that information above all else because what people are willing to pay for in money or significant time attention is what youll be be building your company on. once you find new customers dont be afraid to ask for referrals to people they think will like your product. word of mouth is the strongest method of gaining new business especially for a start up. once you find customers collect data now that you have customers you can build your feedback loop. the foundation of this loop is listening to them. of course you will have to ask them the right questions one example is asking why they are your customer what pain point is your product solving for them how could it be better what pain point does it not solve that they wish it would you can ask these questions via the phone online surveys or email using whatever medium they are most comfortable with will yield the best results. second once you have a significant amount of users customers or traffic to your primary site start correlating analytics to the information you get via direct contact. are people saying they want what youre providing but dropping out during the signup process or when learning to use a new tool product thats critical information that you need to balance. analyzing and using information any entrepreneur whos built a company from scratch will tell you that the moment of data overload comes very quickly. no matter how much information you have it is worthless without knowing how to analyze it. in the early stages of building a company youll want to read everything every single comment and compliment and every bit of google analytics or whatever you are using to understand quantitative data. categorize the comments and if necessary subcategorize them. youll need to look for trends and chart them so that you can watch them over time. feedback is a continuous loop not a one time project with a completion date. and because of that youll also want to look at key metrics that focus on the growth of your product. increases in total revenue or user signups are often less helpful than looking at the underlying reasons for growth. when getting ready to embark on a major endeavor whether it be personal professional or otherwise passion is frequently touted as a prerequisite quality to have. and while passion for an idea or ideal is generally considered a requirement for launching a startup is it really as necessary as founders think in this syndicated post benjamin chong a partner at right click capital and codirector of the sydney founder institute explains why following your passion is an admirable yet misguided notion and what founders should strive for instead. the post is it all about passion originally appeared on benjamin chongs blog and has been republished below with permission. passion makes for success. without passion youll fail. if you dont have passion about what youre doing you wont do it for long. weve all heard these catch phrases and while they sound good ive had a niggling suspicion in the back of my mind that it doesnt always work that way. ive seen salesmen with loads of passion fail in closing deals. ive seen actors with passion for their craft fail in getting work. ive seen speakers who are passionate about a cause fail to mount cogent arguments. while i was growing up my parents sent me to music lessons. every week i remember going to my piano teachers studio where shed have me play scales and pieces i had practiced during the week. on weeks where i had slacked off my teacher would ask if i had practiced. id say yes to which shed reply i can hear you havent practiced this week. if as a kid youd asked me whether i was passionate about music i dont think my answer would have been a resounding yes but as the years of practice added up i got better and better and while im certainly no concert pianist i now say im passionate about music in general and piano music in particular. cal newports book so good they cant ignore you deals with this very topic. he dispels the popular concept that you need to find your passion before you launch your career. instead he spells out the importance of following four simple rules thatll put you on the right trajectory. each of these rules isnt revolutionary but when combined they make up a sensible and coherent action plan no matter what your career. the first rule is dont follow your passion. in this section cal strongly argues following your passion is bad advice especially when youre passionate about a field you have limited experience with. in this section cal strongly argues following your passion is bad advice especially when youre passionate about a field you have limited experience with. the second rule is be so good that they cant ignore you. here cal puts forward a number of examples of successful individuals who have honed their skills through deliberate practice. he recalls the hour rule made famous by malcolm gladwells book outliers whereby those who are experts in the field be it music sport or business have spent hours developing their craft. here cal puts forward a number of examples of successful individuals who have honed their skills through deliberate practice. he recalls the hour rule made famous by malcolm gladwells book outliers whereby those who are experts in the field be it music sport or business have spent hours developing their craft. the third slightly cryptic rule is turn down a promotion. cal argues its important for skilful people to be deliberate about how and where they direct their efforts. control here is key as is having the freedom to take little bets in exploring and experimenting with areas of interest. he also stresses the importance of continual improvement noting that so many people stop learning and stretching themselves once theyve found a comfortable job. cal argues its important for skilful people to be deliberate about how and where they direct their efforts. control here is key as is having the freedom to take little bets in exploring and experimenting with areas of interest. he also stresses the importance of continual improvement noting that so many people stop learning and stretching themselves once theyve found a comfortable job. the fourth rule is think small act big. in this section cal provides examples of other successful people who have discovered their big and challenging missions after theyve developed a high level of domain knowledge and cultivated rare skills. one of my favourite quotes of this section is working right trumps funding right work. after reading so good they cant ignore you i can see parallels in my own life. my passion for music seems to have come about repeated and deliberate at least on my parents part exposure from a young age. i received ongoing encouragement with provided additional motivation to practice more becoming more confident and playing and enjoying different genres. in other fields im now more motivated to spend time deliberately practicing and developing my skills applying some of the authors other rules. man showing a red heart shaped box image by stockunlimitedfor employees ongoing dialogue with their managers is crucial for success in the workplace. according to research from leadership iq the optimal amount of time employees should spend interacting with their leaders is six hours per week. while this number may seem surprising and even sciencefiction for many employees organizations are increasingly seeing higher productivity rates from their employees after they spend quality time with their managers. in fact the study found that employees who spend six hours per week with their manager are percent more inspired percent more engaged percent more innovative and percent more intrinsically motivated than those who spend only one hour per week. the performance gapunfortunately employees and managers dont get together as much as they should. from the moment goals are set at the beginning of the year to the time a performance review happens there is a gap where little formal guidance is given by managers on how to improve performance. this leaves employees on their own without any external confirmation that they are working on the right things and without any help on how to increase their impact. increased attention from management is important for employees because business objectives shift over time so employees need to be given continuous guidance on what is expected from them. the frequency and quality of such meetings is crucial for goal alignment and personal development. if employees dont get enough chances throughout the year to connect with their managers how will they ever be sure they are on the right track and use the guidance to further improve why the current problem existsoften the meetings between a manager and employee are unstructured because they lack an agenda. without a list of items to discuss meetings can become unfocused. managers have other responsibilities apart from supervising their employees so they dont make performance checkins a priority. common issues include lack of time managers are busy travel often or have too many direct reports. forget to have them managers dont schedule performance checkins and sometimes they dont even think they are important. also managers with many direct reports might prioritize certain employees over others. dont understand value. managers will often multitask during these meetings sending the message that the employee is not important and time should be spent on other matters. lack of training. managers dont know how to conduct performance checkins. they have been promoted to the manager level because of their technical skills rather than their people skills so they havent been trained properly. employees play a role in this as well and they often fail at having effective conversations with managers about their performance for the following reasons absence of performance record. employees dont keep track of their activities and achievements on an ongoing basis so when they have a meeting with their manager they are unprepared. they avoid bragging. a modest employee might not tout their accomplishments so their achievements are not recognized by their manager. lack of ownership of their careers. employees are reactive about figuring out ways to improve their performance and fulfill their potential. they expect their managers to always take the lead and provide strong guidance on what needs to be done to hit their goals. this approach works when managers take the lead and engage employees. but when thats not the case employee performance suffers. what employees can gain ongoing conversations around performance between an employee and manager are the best way to increase engagement improve performance and develop skills for the future. a lack of feedback causes them to disengage and feel unvalued within the company. here are a few ways that employees can gain the most out of having regular performance conversations with their managers make their work visible. in order for managers to understand what their employees are working on employees need to make their activities and achievements visible. ideally these items would build up from previous meetings so there is continuity in the conversation and so steady progress can happen week after week. align expectations. frequent checkins with their managers enable employees to understand expectations more clearly and confirm that they are focusing on the right tasks. have business priorities changed is there a need to realign and focus on different objectives raise issues proactively. employees need to share the dependencies they are facing. what resources do they need what are the challenges they are facing that might get in the way of hitting their goals employees need to be very clear about how the environment is affecting their goals or the accomplishment of activities. invite feedback. employees need to reflect on recent actions and receive input from their managers. are they accomplishing tasks in a timeefficient manner are they prioritizing their work adequately get coaching. employees can struggle to see the big picture like their managers can. they often need an outside in perspective to the work they are doing. what can they be doing differently what should they start doing or stop doing proposing priority actions and focusing on future goals is important for employees to progress their skills. how can they change their behavior so that performance increases what do they need to do in order to maximize productivity continuous performance managementwhile managers are the ones who coordinate performance reviews employees are responsible for demanding the ongoing feedback and guidance they need throughout the year. performance management should include recurring oneonone meetings between employees and their managers so performance is always aligned to the right business objectives. these meetings are not a oneway street managers and employees need to collaborate together. it is not the managers job to do the work the employees should be doing but rather to create the right environment that will make employees successful. and it is the employees responsibility to proactively share their work and seek valuable feedback. developing talent is ultimately a combination of a managers ability to provide guidance and an employees willingness to learn. by rethinking the performance management process to be more employeedriven forwardlooking and continuous company leaders can improve performance and develop talent in a way that appeals to all. what do boards actually do theres a lot of mystique about what happens at board meetings and a lot of imagined boardroom drama. i read commentary or twitter or blogs and realize that there are also strongly held convictions that there are these evil vcs who do terrible things to mostly altruistic founders. the image of boards and of investors vs. founder conflicts has been so at odds with my experiences on dozens of boards over the past years that i thought it was worth sharing what i actually see. as a starting point the board is intended to have legal and financial responsibilities to a few key constituencies shareholders debt holders creditors employees government and major parties with whom the business operates. in some ways being a board member is like how ive heard people describe learning to become a pilot many hours of boredom followed by some brief moments of absolute panic and fear. in fact as one twitter commenter observed to what do board do often not much. thats true. executives run the daytoday so often the board is more involved as a sparring partner at key intervals. the administrative work we actually do at board meetings agreeing an annual budget setting a a valuation used to price stock options agreeing stock option allocations reviewing financial performance talking about the organizational structure and where we need to bolster things discussing sales marketing strategies product launches technical challenges talking about law suits patents trademarks employee disputes and so forth between board meetings we do calls to discuss performance or major initiatives. often we are asked to get involved in executivelevel recruiting. and of course we help with business development introductions and with fund raising events. board work does involve a lot of conflict at moments throughout the company. sometimes conflict comes because a company isnt hitting its expected targets and investors vs. executives have different views in the causes or the consequences of underperformance. sometimes conflict comes because executives want to increase personal compensation and investors arent in favor of this. sometimes it comes because investors believe the company needs more experienced leadership to run the company or more often to help run the company. but unlike the popular press reporting of this conflict of the time it is foundertofounder conflict and not investortofounder conflict. the overwhelming majority of conflicts that ive seen on boards over the years are a result of the tensions of either underperformance of a company in which executives blame the action of each other or specific individuals founders or senior executives in a company upset that they dont have the right role title or compensation organizational changes in a company initiated by the ceo that leaves somebody in the company being unhappy different risk expectations founders have with each other raise more vs. raise less engage in ma vs. fund raise grow faster with higher burn or cut costs and focus on profitability etc. in nearly years of sitting on boards i have seen founders trying to fire other cofounders companies revolting against the founder ceo and asking for the boards help founders physically threatening other cofounders or employees substance abuse major problems with depression and dysfunction at the executive level of course im not saying most founders have problems im just pointing out that when youre involved with scores of companies you see every kind of human behavior. but importantly nonfounders who are often major contributors to the success of a company and would be interested to know that its not unheard of to see founders ask for major topups of their personal equity while not having commensurate topups for rankandfile executives major squandering of company resources on travel entertainment that isnt in support of company goals profligate spending with limited regard for future fund raising that causes major dilution when funds are raised at the last minute i point out the worst that ive seen in years for a reason. boards are not appointed to be founderfriendly lapdogs for the founders who start companies and usually own the largest equity positions in the company. boards are fiduciaries to represent the interest of all shareholders big and small and this includes employees who bet with their careers and with reduced pay in order to have equity they hope will be valuable. to be clear most founders ive ever worked with have been super ethical very conscientious not overly greedy and take their personal responsibilities very seriously. i also want to be clear that some investor board members can act like total jerks at times. i am usually loyal to the founders ive backed above all else. i consider myself founder friendly. i will work evenings or weekends to help a founder in need. i prefer to leave the passionate missiondriven founder in charge for as long as is possible. if the founder has limitations in running a company i will normally try any other option other than removing them from the ceo role. and if i believe they arent the best suited person to run the company i will always sit down and walk the founder through why i believe the company might be better suited with somebody else at the helm. i will see if i can get him or her to see this herself. but in the end a boards ultimate loyalty must be to the company and all of its shareholders. the board is there to represent the interests of all shareholders creditors and to put the interests of the company before their own interests. at times being founder friendly can mean protecting many founders from a ceo or it can even mean providing tough guardrails to protect a ceos own personal interests from his or her worst instincts. i saw this first hand with a ceo who tried to get into numerous companybetting lawsuits that we knew werent in his best interest. what prompted this post it has nothing to do with any individual company. i have been meaning to write this for a while as ive noticed that much of my board time is involved in trying to be an independent referee for founders who themselves are trying to resolve their own conflicts. those seldom get reported. the rise of crowd funding saw the first wave of founders gleeful that they could raise capital without having to deal with terrible vcs. i think were far enough into this trend to see that having strong board members including vcs is a healthy alternative to partyrounds of crowd funding with no oversight. lately ive noticed that there is a second wave that many fantasize about a world in which icos drive all funding and founders and employees never have to deal with venture capitalists. icos certainly have a place in startup financing. but having a board of directors and having some of those board members be large financial owners in the business with shared corporate governance forces a tension in businesses that i believe is healthy. this is similar to the role that public markets play in helping shape publicly traded companies. at times im sure it feels terrible to be a publicly traded company but ultimately i believe the sunshine of publicly reported numbers produces better results. so too a healthy and skeptical board. never ever compromise hiring for culture fityour company culture is the foundation on which everything you do rests. your culture acts as an unwritten set of rules that drives behavior and cohesion across the company. cohesive insular cultures are more resilient and can withstand shocks to it e. g. pivoting multiple times as well as can be extremely motivational draw out the best in people e. g. engineers at palintir sleeping under their desks in their belief they are helping national security the emergence of googles dont be evil doctrine. bad culture fits lead to painmost companies do a poor job of enforcing a common culture or are willing to sacrifice the cultural aspects of who they hire in order to get someone effective or to fill a need. this typically backfires in a big way over the short to medium term. every single founder i know who has compromised on culture fit has regretted it due to the disruptions it has caused their company having to fire the bad fits creating a crappy work environment good people quitting trust eroding between coworkers product moving in the wrong direction bad actors building power bases misaligned incentives emerging in the organization etc. note for the purpose of this post i define values in its broadest sense e. g. included are things like pragmatism getshitdoneedness etc. how to build a strong culturehave strong hiring filters in place. explicitly filter for people with common outlooks and values early. hire lots of relatively inexperienced people as you scale. you can indoctrinate people who grow up in your culture more easily then people who grew up in someone elses company culture especially when experienced folks come in the door with negative cultural baggage. constantly emphasize values day to day. be repetitious until you are blue in the face. the second you are really sick of saying the same thing over and over you will find people have started repeating it back to you. reward people based on performance culture fit. people should be rewarded promotions financially etc. on both productivity and culture. get rid of bad culture fits quickly. fire bad culture fits even faster then you fire low performers. this post focuses on above hiring filters you can use to find great culture fits. hiring for culture fitfor an early stage raw startup your hiring focus should be on homogeneity. you should be encouraging a diversity of origins gender ethnicity etc. while discouraging a diversity in company values. max levchin put it on quora having a highly homogeneous background education values preferences etc very early team is better than not cuts down on timewasting arguments. an early stage company is a fragile and having people pulling in different directions or wasting time in pointless philosophical arguments can be lethal. early on you want to hire people with common perspectives and goals who are all pulling in the same direction. note this does not mean want you want clones or group think. . determine the sort of people you want to hire. many culture evolve organically based on the first few hires you make. as company founders you should actively shape this. ask yourselves the following questions and get agreement amongst the founders a. what are the key cornerstones of your companys culture what sort of values do you want people you hire to have b. what are you willing to compromise on what are you not note if you are willing to compromise on it it is not important to you. c. how do you plan to screen for people with these values in your interviews what questions do you plan to ask at each stage to surface their values d. are there common backgrounds or resume signals you want to use as filters e. g. built cool stuff on the side in college facebook versus ivy league education double major and. gpa google. . ask culturally relevant questions often and early in your hiring process. for phone screens at mixer labs geoapi the company i started that twitter acquired i would ask candidates basic types of questions before passing them on for an engineering interview a. basic technical competency questions. b. culture fit questions. my questions were focused on things like the persons productivity motivations aspirations accomplishments e. g. what they were most proud of had uniquely pulled off etc. analytical approach design sense and working style are they structured etc. . i would also ask for an explicit view on cultural traits they valued. in the background i would look for red flags in the persons personality working style and motivations that would come up in the conversation. some red flags for me people whose primary motivation was cash. for mixer labs we wanted people motivated by the impact they could have and rewarded people richly with equity. cash focused people may make bad decisions when trading off financial decisions versus other stuff see e. g. parts of the banking industry. people who were smart but not as smart as they thought they were. e. g. if asked a simple brain teaser the smartest people wrote down the question and worked through it. the people who thought they were smartest would try to do it in their heads and get it wrong. people who would create a bad environment for the early team low energy or negative outlook needlessly argumentative focused on philosophy over pragmatism etc. . people no one wanted to spend time with. this is known as the airport test. e. g. if you were on a business trip with the person and the plane was delayed would you be happy to hang out with them at the airport if not why do you want to have them in your office every day if people seemed technically great but a bad fit culturally we would ding them immediately. . ask the interviewers for their view of the person from a culture fit perspective. when assessing the candidate after an interview we would ask people on our team to weigh in on the culture fit of the candidate and whether people would want to work with them. this served two implicit purposes a. to screen the candidate for culture fitb. to reemphasize cultural values to the broader teamyou should be explicit about the type of culture you are trying to build and the type of people you want to hire. by explicit i dont mean having a sign pasted up in a person startup with a list of your values. rather i mean make the hiring huddles an opportunity to reemphasize to everyone on the team what is important to the company culturally. this constant reemphasis of cultural values is key as the company starts to scale rapidly and grow future blog post on this coming see also example below under. . take people out for a beer test as part of interviews. we would take every candidate to some social outing typically dinner or beer after work. in a startup people work long hours and you want to make sure people fit in and the team and create an even awesomer environment. intriguingly in a social environment the candidate would often show more of their true colors. especially if beer was involved. this often happened before any beer was drunken i think it was just a shift to a more social context from a work one that triggered behavioral changes. a great example is a candidate we rejected post beer test who was one of the strongest engineers technically that we had ever interviewed. however once we made it to the bar he made a lot of really bad offcolor jokes that crossed the line and made the team uncomfortable about him. when we told our then person team we were going to reject the candidate who would have increased productivity by single handedly one of our employees literally said wow you really are serious about trying to build a big company. he saw that we were willing to trade off a great engineer in a competitive environment for maintaining the right culture for us. this impacted the way that he approached interviews from that point on. our example of trading off short term productivity for the right long term dna resonated with him and changed his behavior. . have them work out of your office. another way to see if a candidate is a good fit is have them come work out of your office for a half day. in one case for mixer labs a designer candidate offered to take a week off to work out of our offices to see how we would all work together we paid her for her time. this allows you to spend more time with the person in a workish environment to see if they are a good fit. . optimize for the long term. every founder has that moment of temptation. there is a big hole you want to fill. you have been looking for the right candidate for too long and cant find them. or even worse you find someone great for the role but they seem borderline or outright bad culturally. the right strategy is to not hire the person. if there is a doubt there is no doubt unfortunately proves itself to be true over and over again. 